The thunder exalts His praise, and so are the angels are in awe of Him. He looses the thunderbolts and smites whosoever He will. Yet they dispute aboutAllah who is Mighty in power.
And if he has divorced her [for the third time], then she is not lawful to him afterward until [after] she marries a husband other than him. And if the latter husband divorces her [or dies], there is no blame upon the woman and her former husband for returning to each other if they think that they can keep [within] the limits of Allah. These are the limits of Allah, which He makes clear to a people who know.
Said Firaun, “You accepted faith in him before I permitted you! He is indeed your leader who taught you magic; so now you will come to know; I swear, I will certainly cut off your hands and your feet from alternate sides, and crucify all of you.”
That He may reward those who believe (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism), and do righteous good deeds, out of His Bounty. Verily, He likes not the disbelievers.
And when Our command came, We delivered Shuaib and those who believed with him by a mercy from Us, and the evildoers were seized by the Cry, and morning found them in their habitations fallen prostrate
They ask you to hasten the punishment, but surely, Hell is [already] encompassing those who deny the truth.
If thou askest them, 'Who created the heavens and the earth?' they will say, 'God.' Say: 'Praise belongs to God.' Nay, but most of them have no knowledge.
Alif. Lam. Ra. These are the verses of the Book overflowing with wisdom.
But the devout will avoid it.
Who believe in the Unseen, are steadfast in prayer, and spend out of what We have provided for them;
Thank you very much.
But their belief was not going to profit them when they had seen Our punishment; (this is) Allah's law, which has indeed obtained in the matter of His servants, and there the unbelievers are lost.
Now throw down what is in your right hand—it will swallow what they have crafted. What they have crafted is only a magician’s trickery. But the magician will not succeed, no matter what he does.”
When the unbelievers see you they make you an object of fun, saying: "Is he the one who mentions your gods?" They say so, and yet they reject with disdain the very mention of the Most Compassionate Lord.
(Of a punishment) Like the one We sent down upon the dividers.
And if you fear treachery from a people, break off [the treaty] with them in a like manner. Indeed Allah does not like the treacherous.
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
Do you not know that God knows whatever is in the heavens and the earth? This is surely in accordance with the law. This is certainly how (the law of) God works inevitably.
Shall We then take away the Message from you and repel (you), for that ye are a people transgressing beyond bounds?
Ask the children of Israel how many a clear sign We had given them. But if one changes the favour of God after having received it, then remember, God is severe in revenge.
And He has subjected to you whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth - all from Him. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought.
[He is] the Exalted above [all] degrees, Owner of the Throne; He places the inspiration of His command upon whom He wills of His servants to warn of the Day of Meeting.
God raised him up to Himself. God is Majestic and All-wise.
He utters not a word, but there is a vigilant watcher at hand.
This is how We reward the virtuous.
And He created the jinn of a flame of fire.
And had not known what is my account.
Indeed the pious are in shade and springs.
We have adorned the lower heaven with the adornment of the planets,
Those who disbelieve say: If only a portent were sent down upon him from his Lord! Say: Lo! Allah sendeth whom He will astray, and guideth unto Himself all who turn (unto Him),
It is not (possible) for any human being unto whom Allah had given the Scripture and wisdom and the prophethood that he should afterwards have said unto mankind: Be slaves of me instead of Allah; but (what he said was): Be ye faithful servants of the Lord by virtue of your constant teaching of the Scripture and of your constant study thereof.
He looked down and saw him in the midst of the Fire.
Say: The knowledge (thereof is only with Allah and I am only a plain warner.
when the seas are made to burst forth,
Go to the home location
Then Pharaoh sent among the cities gatherers
We certainly tried those that were before them, and assuredly God knows those who speak truly, and assuredly He knows the liars.
Say: 'If you love God, follow me, and God will love you, and forgive you your sins; God is All-forgiving, All-compassionate.'
His companion said to him while he was conversing with him, "Have you disbelieved in He who created you from dust and then from a sperm-drop and then proportioned you [as] a man?
Say, "Not equal are the evil and the good, although the abundance of evil might impress you." So fear Allah, O you of understanding, that you may be successful.
And when you are journeying in the land there is no fault in you that you shorten the prayer, if you fear the unbelievers may afflict you; the unbelievers are for you a manifest foe.
They will have no food except thorns.
when the seas are made to burst forth,
He said: The knowledge is with Allah only. I convey unto you that wherewith I have been sent, but I see you are a folk that know not.
"Every obstructor of good, transgressor, and the sceptic,
Moses said, "I seek protection from your and my Lord against every arrogant person who has no faith in the Day of Judgment."
We did not create them both but with the truth, but most of them do not know.
Which of you is afflicted with madness.
And do not ever assume that Allah is unaware of what the unjust do; He does not give them respite but for a day in which the eyes will become fixed, staring.
When you heard of it, why didn't the Believing men and the Believing women have a good opinion of themselves, and why did they not say, "This is a manifest slander?"
It produces its fruit all the time, by permission of its Lord. And Allah presents examples for the people that perhaps they will be reminded.
Or do you ask them for a reward, so that they are over-burdened by debt?
They went forth early, believing that they had the power (to gather the fruit).
Saving archive
Surely We have sent down to thee the Book with the truth, so that thou mayest judge between the people by that God has shown thee. So be not an advocate for the traitors;
And as for those who shall be blest, they shall be in the Garden, as abiders therein so long as the heavens and the earth remain, save as thy Lord may will. a gift unending.
A multitude from the former [generations]
This is the Paradise which you have received as your inheritance by virtue of what you have done.
Indeed the charity-giving men and women, and those who lend an excellent loan to Allah – for them is double, and for them is an honourable reward.
It was a kind of shit on the ground.
So leave them alone until they encounter that Day of theirs when they shall be struck down,
So remember Me, and I will remember you. And thank Me, and do not be ungrateful.
And then We would surely have vouchsafed unto them from Our presence a mighty hire.
We will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve for what they have associated with Allah of which He had not sent down [any] authority. And their refuge will be the Fire, and wretched is the residence of the wrongdoers.
Who, out of His Grace, has lodged us in a home that will last forever; there, toil will touch us not, nor weariness will touch us."
a guidance and good tidings for the believers
He knows all that is in the heavens and the earth and all that you reveal or conceal. God knows best whatever the hearts contain.
Then he whose deeds weigh heavy in the Balance
We send down in the Quran that which is a cure and mercy for the faithful; and it increases the wrongdoers only in loss.
Hath there come unto thee the story of Musa?
Hast thou not seen those who wrangle concerning the revelations of Allah, how they are turned away? -
They said, “Do not fear; we bring you good news of a boy endowed with knowledge.”
You will see every people on their knees, every people shall be summoned to its Record [and a voice will say], "Today you will be requited for your deeds.
Saying: "I am alone your lord, the highest of them all."
They will live amid the thornless lot trees
But if they turn back, say: I have given you warning in fairness and I do not know whether what you are threatened with is near or far;
Perhaps you wish to disregard some of what is revealed to you, and you may be stressed because of it, since they say, “If only a treasure was sent down to him, or an angel came with him.” You are only a warner, and God is Responsible for all things.
And Job, when he cried unto his Lord, (saying): Lo! adversity afflicteth me, and Thou art Most Merciful of all who show mercy.
and see; and they too shall soon see.
These are the signs of Allah that We recite for you in truth. So what discourse will they believe after Allah and His signs?
Thus do We deal with the Mujrimun (polytheists, disbelievers, sinners, criminals, etc.)!
For the security of the Quraysh:
And do not consume one another’s wealth by unjust means, nor offer it as bribes to the officials in order to consume part of other people’s wealth illicitly, while you know.
That is Allah’s grace, which He grants to whomever He wishes, and Allah is dispenser of a great grace.
but my call has only increased them in running away.
When they board a vessel, they call on God, sincere in their faith for Him alone; but when He brings them safe to land, they begin to ascribe partners to Him.
Wherein they will abide, with no desire to be removed from thence.
They are guided unto gentle speech; they are guided unto the path of the Glorious One.
Say to them: "O people of the Book, you have no ground (for argument) until you follow the Torah and the Gospel and what has been revealed to you by your Lord." But what has been revealed to you by your Lord will surely increase rebellion and unbelief in many; so do not grieve for those who do not believe.
And Allah has caused you to grow out of the earth so wondrously,
O ye who believe! Be careful of your duty to Allah, and be with the truthful.
What! now! and indeed you disobeyed before and you were of the mischief-makers.
Blessed is He who placed constellations in the sky, and placed in it a lamp, and an illuminating moon.
He said: Do you know how you treated Yusuf and his brother when you were ignorant?
They even solicited of him his guests, but We obliterated their eyes: 'Now, taste My punishment and My warnings'
he is not niggardly of the Unseen.
Those are they from whom We shall accept the best of that which they have worked, and their misdeeds We shall pass by: among the fellows of the Garden: a true promise this, which they have been promised.
Knowest thou not that to Allah (alone) belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth? He punisheth whom He pleaseth, and He forgiveth whom He pleaseth: and Allah hath power over all things.
Then Allah will punish him with the greatest punishment.
Then the end of those who committed evil was evil, for they belied the signs of God, and they derided them.
by the lote tree beyond which none may pass
If you ask them, ‘Who created the heavens and the earth, and who has disposed the sun and the moon?’ They will surely say, ‘Allah.’ Then where do they stray?
He said: set me over the store houses of the land; verily I shall be a keeper knowing.
On the day when their tongues and their hands and their feet will testify against them, regarding what they used to do.
But they tore asunder their faith into many parts. But to Us they are bound to return.
But in West Africa, "one" is thought of the end of poverty, as at the end of the sentence.
that the blind man came to him.
God has cursed the unbelievers, and prepared for them a Blaze,
It is not meet for them, nor is it in their power,
Hast thou not turned Thy vision to those who were given a portion of the Book? they believe in sorcery and Evil, and say to the Unbelievers that they are better guided in the (right) way Than the believers!
They say, "Our hearts are secure." Nay, the fact is that Allah has cursed them for their disbelief; so they are little disposed to believe.
Fruits; and they will be honored
It is not for the Prophet and those who believe to ask for the forgiveness of the associators, although they be of kin after it hath become manifest unto them that they are the fellows of the Flaming Fire.
He will say: "Remain condemned in it, and do not speak to Me.
he truly saw him on the clear horizon;
And fear the Fire, which has been prepared for the disbelievers.
Say: Have you considered your associates which you call upon besides Allah? Show me what part of the earth they have created, or have they any share in the heavens; or, have We given them a book so that they follow a clear argument thereof? Nay, the unjust do not hold out promises one to another but only to deceive.
Certainly Allah had shown to His Apostle the vision with truth: you shall most certainly enter the Sacred Mosque, if Allah pleases, in security, (some) having their heads shaved and (others) having their hair cut, you shall not fear, but He knows what you do not know, so He brought about a near victory before that.
If you could see, when the angels take the souls of those who are bent on denying the truth [at death], how they strike their faces and backs: saying "Taste the punishment of the Burning!
They said, “O our people! We have indeed heard a Book, sent down after Moosa, which confirms the Books preceding it, and guides towards the Truth and the Straight Path.”
He knows surely what you say aloud, and what you hide within your breasts.
My Lord! make me keep up prayer and from my offspring (too), O our Lord, and accept my prayer:
even though he offers his excuses.
Undoubtedly Allah knoweth that which they keep secret and that which they publish; verily He loveth not the stiff- necked.
If they argue with you, say: 'I have submitted my face to Allah and so have those who follow me' To those who have received the Book (Jews and Nazarenes) and to the ignorant, ask: 'Have you submitted yourselves to Allah' If they became Muslims they were guided, if they turn away, then your only duty is to warn them. Allah is watching over all His worshipers.
On the Day when some faces will be (lit up with) white, and some faces will be (in the gloom of) black: To those whose faces will be black, (will be said): "Did ye reject Faith after accepting it? Taste then the penalty for rejecting Faith."
or We show you a part of that which We have promised them, for indeed We have power over them.
When We bestow Our favour upon man, he turns away and waxes proud; but when a misfortune touches him, he is full of supplication.
And were it not for Allah’s munificence and His mercy upon you, and that Allah is Forgiving, Most Merciful – you would have tasted its outcome.
Is it [because] we took them in ridicule, or has [our] vision turned away from them?"
Every soul will come accompanied by [two angels], a driver, and a witness:
Even the school principal, and the host of a radio show.
When their brother Hud said to them, "Will you not fear Allah?
It is the freeing of a slave;
Abraham was indeed a model, devoutly obedient to Allah, (and) true in Faith, and he joined not gods with Allah:
That Allah may forgive you your sins of the past and the future, and complete His Favour on you, and guide you on the Straight Path;
All of them shall (one day) be gathered before Us.
They said: art thou the one who hath wrought this unto our gods, O Ibrahim?
Removing file:
We had supposed that men and jinn would never utter a lie against God.
It may be if he divorced you (all) that his Lord will give him instead of you, wives better than you, Muslims (who submit to Allah), believers, obedient to Allah, turning to Allah in repentance, worshipping Allah sincerely, fasting or emigrants (for Allah's sake), previously married and virgins.
If some good should befall you, it upsets them, but if some ill befalls you, they rejoice at it. Yet if you are patient and Godwary, their guile will not harm you in any way. Indeed Allah encompasses what they do.
All-Knower of the unseen and the seen! Exalted be He over all that they associate as partners to Him!
You will remember what I say to you. I commit my affair to God; surely God sees His servants.'
So We delivered him and his followers all,
The man who believed said further: "O my people! Follow me: I will lead you to the Path of Right.
It was but one Shout, and lo! they were extinct.
Believers, do not accept illegal interest in order to increase your wealth many times over. Have fear of God so that you will have everlasting happiness.
And the dwellers in the wood indeed were evil-doers.
but if they turn away, know that God is your Protector; the Best of Protectors and the Best of Helpers!
Ye are the best community that hath been raised up for mankind. Ye enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency; and ye believe in Allah. And if the People of the Scripture had believed it had been better for them. Some of them are believers; but most of them are evil-livers.
Among the People of the Book is he who if you entrust him with a heap of gold, he will give it back to you. And among them is he, who, if you entrust him with a single coin, he will not give it back to you, unless you keep after him. That is because they say, “We are under no obligation towards the gentiles.” They tell lies about God, and they know it.
He (Allah) will say: 'Do not dispute before Me. I sent you a warning beforehand.
Our Lord! and raise up in them an Apostle from among them who shall recite to them Thy communications and teach them the Book and the wisdom, and purify them; surely Thou art the Mighty, the Wise.
He has turned with mercy to the three whose case was deferred, when the earth, for all its spaciousness, closed in upon them, and their own souls seemed straitened to them and they realised that there was no refuge from God except in Him. He turned to them so that they might turn to Him. God is the Ever Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
It is God who splits the grain and the date-stone, brings forth the living from the dead; He brings forth the dead too from the living. So that then is God; then how are you perverted?
Owner of power, and high rank with (Allah) the Lord of the Throne,
Indeed they are one of the greatest [signs of God]
And We inspired Musa (Moses) (saying): "Throw your stick," and behold! It swallowed up straight away all the falsehoods which they showed.
And unto those who are Jews We have forbidden that which We have already related unto thee. And We wronged them not, but they were wont to wrong themselves.
So she pointed to him. They said, "How can we speak to one who is in the cradle a child?"
Rather you are surprised, whereas they keep mocking.
And We helped them, so they were victorious.
But those who break the Covenant of Allah, after having plighted their word thereto, and cut asunder those things which Allah has commanded to be joined, and work mischief in the land;- on them is the curse; for them is the terrible home!
Thus those associates of theirs have decked out fair to many idolaters to slay their children, to destroy them, and to confuse their religion for them. Had God willed, they would not have done so; so leave them to their forging.
"Are our gods any better than Jesus (for according to Muhammad), if our gods go to hell so too will Jesus. What they say is only a false argument. In fact, they are a quarrelsome people.
We sent him to a [community of] hundred thousand or more,
Turning away haughtily that he may lead (others) astray from the way of Allah; for him is disgrace in this world, and on the day of resurrection We will make him taste the punishment of burning:
Eat and drink and rejoice. And if you see any human being say, 'I have vowed a fast [of silence] to the Gracious God, and will not speak with any human being today.'"
tasting therein neither coolness nor any drink
And [also] those who spend of their wealth to be seen by the people and believe not in Allah nor in the Last Day. And he to whom Satan is a companion - then evil is he as a companion.
And others are made to await Allah's command, whether He chastise them or whether He turn to them (mercifully), and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
The building they have built will never cease to be [a source of] disquiet in their hearts until their hearts are cut into pieces, and Allah is all-knowing, all-wise.
One Day every soul will come up struggling for itself, and every soul will be recompensed (fully) for all its actions, and none will be unjustly dealt with.
And Pharaoh proclaimed among his people: 'O my people, do I not possess the kingdom of Egypt, and these rivers flowing beneath me? What, do you not see?
That He (Allah) may make what is thrown in by Shaitan (Satan) a trial for those in whose hearts is a disease (of hypocrisy and disbelief) and whose hearts are hardened. And certainly, the Zalimun (polytheists and wrong-doers, etc.) are in an opposition far-off (from the truth against Allah's Messenger and the believers).
Allah is He Who created you and then sustained you, then causeth you to die, then giveth life to you again. Is there any of your (so-called) partners (of Allah) that doeth aught of that? Praised and Exalted be He above what they associate (with Him)!
Abraham's asking forgiveness for his father was only because of a promise he had made to him, but when it became clear to him, that he was God's enemy, he disassociated himself from him. Surely, Abraham was most tender-hearted and forbearing.
he would certainly have remained inside the fish till the Day of Resurrection.
Then We drowned the rest.
stars which are visible during the night
When it sees them from a far off place, they shall hear it raging and sighing.
'Yes indeed! My signs did come to thee, but thou hast cried them lies, and thou hast waxed proud, and become one of the unbelievers.'
He said: I perceived what they perceive not, so I seized a handful from the footsteps of the messenger, and then threw it in. Thus my soul commended to me.
Allah has promised you abundant spoils which you shall acquire. He has instantly granted you this (victory) and has restrained the hands of people from you that it may be a Sign for the believers and He may guide you to a Straight Way.
the Day when the human will remember what he has worked for,
And for him who dreadeth the standing before his Lord will be two Gardens.
We afflicted the people of Pharaoh with hard times and with poor harvest that they may heed.
Maybe our Lord will give us a better orchard in its place; to our Lord do we penitently turn.”
So turn away from them, and wait. They too are waiting.
from the evil of what He has created,
But your Lord is Most forgiving, full of Mercy. If He were to call them (at once) to account for what they have earned, then surely He would have hastened their punishment: but they have their appointed time, beyond which they will find no refuge.
And had We not made you stand firm, you would nearly have inclined to them a little.
Believers, have fear of God and give up whatever unlawful interest you still demand from others, if you are indeed true believers.
Say, “We believe in Allah and what is sent down to us and what was sent down to Ibrahim, and Ismael, and Ishaq, and Yaqub (Jacob) and their sons, and that which came to Moosa and Eisa and the Prophets, from their Lord; we do not make any distinction, in belief, between any of them, and to Him we have submitted ourselves.”
Believers, do not follow in the steps of satan, for those who follow the steps of satan, he bids to indecency and dishonor. But for the bounty of Allah to you, and His Mercy no one of you would ever have been purified; but Allah purifies whom He will; Allah is the Hearer, the Knower.
Yet (now that it is come) they disbelieve therein; but they will come to know.
And had We willed We could have raised him because of the revelations, but he clung to the earth and followed his own desires; his condition therefore is like that of a dog; if you attack him he hangs out his tongue and if you leave him he hangs out his tongue; this is the state of the people who denied Our signs; therefore preach, so that they may give thought.
And for such of your women as despair of menstruation, if ye doubt, their period (of waiting) shall be three months, along with those who have it not. And for those with child, their period shall be till they bring forth their burden. And whosoever keepeth his duty to Allah, He maketh his course easy for him.
From following me? Then have you disobeyed my order?"
And Yusuf's (Joseph) brethren came and they entered unto him, and he recognized them, but they recognized him not.
A provision for you and for your cattle.
Allah blots out, and He establishes what He will. With Him is the Essence of the Book.
Noah said: My Lord! Lo! they have disobeyed me and followed one whose wealth and children increase him in naught save ruin;
In Gardens, they seek answers,
Say: "If angels had peopled the earth and walked about in peace and quiet, We would surely have sent to them an angel as messenger.
The likeness of those who disbelieve (in relation to the messenger) is as the likeness of one who calleth unto that which heareth naught except a shout and cry. Deaf, dumb, blind, therefore they have no sense.
And whosoever comes with an evil deed, their faces shall be thrust into the Fire: 'Are you recompensed but for what you did?'
That is because they believed, then disbelieved, therefore their hearts are sealed so that they understand not.
So We answered his call, and We bestowed upon him Yahya (John), and cured his wife (to bear a child) for him. Verily, they used to hasten on to do good deeds, and they used to call on Us with hope and fear, and used to humble themselves before Us.
God originates creation, and then repeats it. Then to Him you will be returned.
Our Lord! Whomever You cause to enter the Fire, him You indeed bring to disgrace, and there will be none to succour the wrong-doers.
The companions of the pit were killed
And that they say what they do not do? -
When We said to the angels: 'Prostrate yourselves before Adam' all prostrated themselves except iblis, who was one of the jinn, disobedient to the command of his Lord. Would you then take him and his descendants to be your guardians, other than Me, when they are your clear enemy? How evil is the exchange for the harmdoers!
We shall surely bring the dead back to life and We record what they send ahead and what they leave behind. We have recorded everything in a clear book.
When your Lord said to the angels: 'I am creating a human from clay,
And those who dispute (polytheists, etc. with Our Messenger Muhammad SAW) as regards Our Ayat (proofs, signs, verses, etc. of Islamic Monotheism) may know that there is no place of refuge for them (from Allah's punishment).
By the night when it with draweth.
Then he becomes of those who believe, and advise one another to patience, and advise one another to kindness.
Say: 'Obey Allah and obey the Messenger. If you turn away, upon him only rests what is laid upon him, and upon you rests what is laid on you. If you obey him, you shall be guided. It is only for the Messenger to deliver a clear message'
Nay, by the moon,
Verily We! We established him in the earth, and vouchsafed unto him of everything a way.
But they have taken besides Allah [false] deities that perhaps they would be helped.
This has been Our Way with the Messengers whom We sent before you. You will find no change in Our Way.
If any of them should say, "I am a god besides Him", such a one We should reward with Hell: thus do We reward those who do wrong.
When a Book came to them from God which confirms what is with them (the fact of truthfulness of the Prophet Muhammad in their Scripture), and, despite the fact that they had been praying for victory over the disbelievers (by the help of the truthful Prophet), they refuse to accept this book, even though they know it (to be the Truth). May God condemn those who hide the Truth!
Except those [believers] on whom Allah has mercy. Indeed, He is the Exalted in Might, the Merciful.
Then on the Day of Resurrection He will disgrace them and will say: Where are My partners, for whose sake ye opposed (My guidance)? Those who have been given knowledge will say: Disgrace this day and evil are upon the disbelievers,
Yet they worship, besides Allah, things for which no authority has been sent down to them, and of which they have (really) no knowledge: for those that do wrong there is no helper.
No indeed; surely it is a Reminder;
He causes the break of day, and has made the night for rest and He made the sun and the moon to a precise measure. That is the measure determined by the All Mighty and the All Knowing.
When He wills a thing He has only to say: "Be," and it is.
They desire to put out the light of Allah with their mouths, but Allah will perfect His light though the faithless should be averse.
that I may direct you to your Lord and then you hold Him in awe?'”
The Thamud gave the lie to the Messengers.
but he denied it as false and disobeyed,
but if you want the pleasure of God, His Messenger, and the life hereafter, know that God has prepared a great reward for the righteous ones among you."
In a guarded tablet.
I'll try to step my feet in the right way.
O my sons, go and find out about Joseph and his brother and despair not of relief from Allah. Indeed, no one despairs of relief from Allah except the disbelieving people."
for a reminder; and never did We wrong.
We have made those who do not believe in the Hereafter feel their actions appear good to them, so they wander blindly:
Two years later, my family finally came to believe that my father was able to recover my contact with women and girls, so that they could tell me about their problems and we could solve them together.
Do not say that those who are killed in the way of God, are dead, for indeed they are alive, even though you are not aware.
In this section was zero -- there was no relationship between the love and the number of bond -- so I found out that we lost the joy that we had removed from separate pieces of love.
Those whom you call on besides God are but creatures like yourselves. Call upon them, then, and let them respond to you, if what you say is true.
The people of Lut belied the sent ones.
So Pharaoh withdrew: He concerted his plan, and then came (back).
As for him who giveth and is dutiful (toward Allah)
You were not present on the side of Mount Sinai when We called. And all this (knowledge that you are given) is by the grace of your Lord so that you may warn a people to whom no admonisher had come before you, that they may take heed;
without [adding], "if God so wills." Remember your Lord whenever you might forget and say, "I trust my Lord will guide me to that which is even nearer to the right path than this."
and We delivered them and their people from the great distress.
And recall what time the hypocrites and these in whose hearts was a disease said: their religion hath be gulfed those. And whosoever relieth on Allah then verily Allah is Mighty, Wise.
The revelation of the Book, there is no doubt in it, is from the Lord of the worlds.
(We said to him): “O David, We have appointed you vicegerent on earth. Therefore, rule among people with justice and do not follow (your) desire lest it should lead you astray from Allah's Path. Allah's severe chastisement awaits those who stray away from Allah's Path, for they had forgotten the Day of Reckoning.
Truly, they are expelled from hearing.
Woe to every sinful liar,
who sees you when you stand [for prayer],
And the cattle! He hath created them. For you in them there is warmth and other profits and of them ye eat.
Our Lord! Whomever You cause to enter the Fire, him You indeed bring to disgrace, and there will be none to succour the wrong-doers.
Know, therefore, (O Prophet), that there is no god but Allah, and ask forgiveness for your shortcomings and also for (the shortcomings of) believing men and believing women. Allah knows the places where you move about and where you dwell.
That is because they have chosen the life of the world rather than the Hereafter, and because Allah guideth not the disbelieving folk.
And gave a little, then was grudging?
But when he would have assaulted the man who was an enemy to them both, the man said, 'Moses, dost thou' desire to slay me, even as thou slewest a living 'soul yesterday? Thou only desirest to be a tyrant in the land; thou desirest not to be of them that put things right.'
We shall make you recite (the Qur'an) so that you will not forget it,
When He shall gather you all for the Day of Gathering, that will be the Day of loss and gain; and whoever believes in God and does good deeds shall be forgiven their sins and admitted to Gardens through which rivers flow, where they shall dwell forever. That is the supreme triumph.
(Saying): We feed you, for the sake of Allah only. We wish for no reward nor thanks from you;
Yet they ascribe to jinns a partnership with God, although He created them; and they ascribe to Him sons and daughters, without possessing any knowledge. All praise be to Him. He is much too exalted for things they associate (with Him).
Say, "The truth has come. Falsehood has vanished and it will not come back again".
God has now lightened your burden, knowing that there is weakness in you. If there are a hundred steadfast among you, they will defeat two hundred; and if there are a thousand of you, they will defeat two thousand by God’s leave. God is with the steadfast.
Those who have turned back in their traces after the guidance has become clear to them, Satan it was that tempted them, and God respited them.
Or, ‘[Why is not] a treasure thrown to him, or [why does] he [not] have a garden from which he may eat?’ And the wrongdoers say, ‘You are just following a bewitched man.’
“O Zakaria! We give you the glad tidings of a son whose name is Yahya (John) – before him, We have not created anyone of this name.”
O men, it is you who stand in need of God. As for God, He is above all need, worthy of praise.
and they say, 'This is nothing but manifest sorcery.
For them is an abode of peace with their Lord. He will be their defender as reward for what they did.
And pursue not that of which thou hast no knowledge; for every act of hearing, or of seeing or of (feeling in) the heart will be enquired into (on the Day of Reckoning).
Whoever is an enemy to Allah and His angels and messengers, to Gabriel and Michael,- Lo! Allah is an enemy to those who reject Faith.
Truly, those who believe (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism, and in His Messenger Muhammad SAW) and do righteous good deeds, for them will be a reward that will never stop (i.e. Paradise).
"Thus will your Lord choose you and teach you the interpretation of dreams (and other things) and perfect His Favour on you and on the offspring of Ya'qub (Jacob), as He perfected it on your fathers, Ibrahim (Abraham) and Ishaque (Isaac) aforetime! Verily, your Lord is All-Knowing, All-Wise."
We have made it a reminder, and a blessing to the traveler.
And observe the weight with equity and do not make the balance deficient.
But the (mighty) Blast seized them of a morning,
And in the alternation of night and day, and in the means of sustenance – water – which Allah sends down from the sky whereby He gave life to the earth after its death, and in the movement of the winds – (in all these) are signs for people of intellect.
If all the trees on earth were pens, and the sea [were] ink, with seven [more] seas added to it, the words of God would not be exhausted: for, truly, God is Almighty and Wise.
Indeed those of you who turned back on the day when the two armies met – for it was the devil who caused them to waver, because of some of their deeds; and undoubtedly Allah has forgiven them; indeed Allah is Oft Forgiving, Most Forbearing.
Say: 'Shall we tell you of those who are the greatest losers in deeds'
If We had so willed, We could certainly have brought every soul its true guidance: but the Word from Me will come true, "I will fill Hell with Jinns and men all together."
And all the Noble Messengers We sent before you were like this – eating food and walking in the markets; and We have made some of you a test for others; so will you, O people, patiently endure? And O dear Prophet, your Lord is All Seeing.
But when We removed the plague from them till a term which they should attain lo! they broke (the promise).
He said, "My Lord, then reprieve me until the Day they are resurrected."
And thou art a freeman of this City;-
and persisted in heinous sins.
If only you could see the evil-doers hanging their heads in shame before their Lord, "Our Lord, we have seen and we have heard, so send us back again and we will act rightly. For we do indeed now believe."
It is He who has raised among the illiterate (Arabs), a Messenger from themselves, to recite to them His verses, to purify them, and to teach them the Book and the Wisdom, though before that they were in clear error,
Wherein are discourses eternal.
If, then, Allah bring thee back to a party of them, and they ask leave of thee for going forth, say thou: never ye shall go forth with me, nor ever fight an enemy with me; verily ye were pleased with sitting at home the first time, wherefore sit now with those who stay behind.
Say: "If angels had peopled the earth and walked about in peace and quiet, We would surely have sent to them an angel as messenger.
Indeed, I fear my kinsmen who will succeed me, for my wife is barren. Grant me a kinsman
And We sent among them a messenger from themselves: “Serve God. You have no god other than Him. Will you not be cautious?”
So judge between me and them decisively, and deliver me and the believers who are with me.
Say: The angel of death who is given charge of you shall cause you to die, then to your Lord you shall be brought back.
When his dressage steeds were presented to him in the evening,
But those who keep their duty to their Lord, for them are lofty halls with lofty halls above them, built (for them), beneath which rivers flow. (It is) a promise of Allah. Allah faileth not His promise.
We shall provide them in abundance with all kinds of fruit and meat, whatever they may desire.
His is the dominion of the heavens and the earth. He gives life and causes death, and He is over all things competent.
So they went away leaving him behind.
and to recite the Koran. So whosoever is guided, is only guided to his own gain; and whosoever goes astray, say: 'I am naught but a warner.
A sacred month for a sacred month: violation of sanctity calls for fair retribution. Thus you may exact retribution from whoever transgresses against you, in proportion to his transgression. Fear God and know that God is with those who are mindful of Him.
Dhu al-Qarnayn said: "This is a mercy from my Lord: but when the time of my Lord's promise shall come, He will level the rampart with the ground. My Lord's promise always comes true."
The Day whereon ye behold it, every suckling woman shall forget that which she suckleth, and every burthened woman shall lay down her burthen; and thou shalt behold mankind as drunken, whereas drunken they will be not, but the torment of Allah shall be severe.
So that is just a single jolt, thereupon they will begin staring.
They said: "O our people! Verily! We have heard a Book (this Quran) sent down after Musa (Moses), confirming what came before it, it guides to the truth and to a Straight Path (i.e. Islam).
O ye who believe! Be not forward in the presence of Allah and His messenger, and keep your duty to Allah. Lo! Allah is Hearer, Knower.
Remember that when Moses prayed for water for his people, We answered, "Strike the rock with your staff": whereupon twelve springs gushed forth from it; the people of every clan came to know their drinking place. (Then they were enjoined:) "Eat and drink of what We have provided and do not spread disorder on the earth."
These: belike Allah will pardon them, and Allah is ever Pardoning, Forgiving.
Those who dispute about the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) of Allah, without any authority that has come to them, it is greatly hateful and disgusting to Allah and to those who believe. Thus does Allah seal up the heart of every arrogant, tyrant. (So they cannot guide themselves to the Right Path).
and those who keep their trusts and covenants,
Or, lest when it sees the punishment should say: 'O that I might return, and be among those that did good'
except those who have faith and do righteous deeds, and enjoin one another to [follow] the truth, and enjoin one another to patience.
And if Allah touch you with affliction, there is none to take it off but He; and if He visit you with good, then He has power over all things.
Until ye visit the graves.
Thus indeed do We reward those who do right.
And We gave him good in this world, and in the next he will most surely be among the good.
The life of this world is made to appear beautiful in the sight of the disbelievers, and they make fun of the believers; and the pious will be above them on the Day of Resurrection; and Allah may give to whomever He wills, without account.
They raced to the door and she tore his shirt from behind. And by the door, they met her husband whereupon she said: 'What is the recompense of one whose intent is evil against your people other than being imprisoned, or sternly punished'
Nay, but they deny (the coming of) the Hour, and for those who deny (the coming of) the Hour We have prepared a flame.
And He does not fear its sequel.
Say your special (tahajjud) prayer during some part of the night as an additional (obligatory) prayer for you alone so that perhaps your Lord will raise you to a highly praiseworthy position.
And if they break their oaths after their treaty and defame your religion, then fight the leaders of disbelief, for indeed, there are no oaths [sacred] to them; [fight them that] they might cease.
No help can they give them, nor can they help themselves.
It is He who made the night for you, that you may rest in it, and the day to provide visibility. There are indeed signs in that for people who listen.
And do not approach the property of an orphan, except in the way that is best, until he reaches maturity. And fulfill [every] commitment. Indeed, the commitment is ever [that about which one will be] questioned.
He has created the heavens and the earth with the truth; He makes the night cover the day and makes the day overtake the night, and He has made the sun and the moon subservient; each one runs on to an assigned term; now surely He is the Mighty, the great Forgiver.
When that which covers covered the lote-tree;
He said: Nay, verily. So go ye twain with Our tokens. Lo! We shall be with you, Hearing.
And whoever does righteous deeds, whether male or female, while being a believer - those will enter Paradise and will not be wronged, [even as much as] the speck on a date seed.
And when it is said to him, “Fear Allah”, he becomes more resolute in committing sin – therefore hell is sufficient for such; and that is indeed, a very wretched resting place.
Every soul will come accompanied by [two angels], a driver, and a witness:
As though they were asses startled."
Then We gave the Scripture as inheritance unto those whom We elected of Our bondmen. But of them are some who wrong themselves and of them are some who are lukewarm, and of them are some who outstrip (others) through good deeds, by Allah's leave. That is the great favour!
Some people say, "We have faith in God." But when they face some hardship for His cause, they begin to consider the persecution that they have experienced from people as a torment from God. When your Lord grants you a victory, they say, "We were with you." Does God not know best what is in the hearts of every creature?
Set not up with Allah any other ilah (god), (O man)! (This verse is addressed to Prophet Muhammad SAW, but its nature is general to all mankind), or you will sit down reproved, forsaken (in the Hell-fire).
And what will make you know what it is?
Throw down your staff." When Moses saw his staff moving on the ground like a living being he fled with no desire to step forward. He was told, "Moses, step forward. Do not be afraid; you will be safe and secure.
Follow the best of what has been revealed to you from your Lord before the chastisement suddenly comes upon you without you even being aware of it.”
But there are others who pray, "Our Lord, grant us good in this world as well as good in the world to come, and protect us from the torment of the Fire."
(Our religion is) the Baptism of Allah: And who can baptize better than Allah? And it is He Whom we worship.
He led me away from the Message after it had come to me; for Satan has always been a betrayer of man.”
And shake toward thee the trunk of the palm-tree it shall drop on thee dates fresh and ripe.
and clustered spathes
And every man: We have fastened his action round his neck, and We shall bring forth unto him on the Day of Judgment a book proffered him open.
So he abandoned them [to their fate] and said, ‘O my people! Certainly, I communicated to you the messages of my Lord, and I was your well-wisher. So how should I grieve for a faithless lot?’
These are the commandments of God We recite to you verily; God does not wish injustice to the creatures of the world.
Seest thou not that Allah created the heavens and the earth in Truth? If He so will, He can remove you and put (in your place) a new creation?
And that which she was worshipping other than Allah had averted her [from submission to Him]. Indeed, she was from a disbelieving people."
Then indeed they have to enter hell.
They shall not hear therein any vain word, but they shall hear only peace; and therein they shall have their provision morning and evening. *Chapter: 19
And when We said to the angels, 'Bow yourselves to Adam'; so they bowed themselves, save Iblis; he refused.
A provision for you and for your cattle.
The weighing on that Day will be the true weighing: those whose scales are heavy will prosper.
to bring thee every cunning sorcerer.'
When those who disbelieve had put in their hearts pride and haughtiness the pride and haughtiness of the time of ignorance, then Allah sent down His Sakinah (calmness and tranquillity) upon His Messenger (SAW) and upon the believers, and made them stick to the word of piety (i.e. none has the right to be worshipped but Allah), and they were well entitled to it and worthy of it. And Allah is the All-Knower of everything.
No! Indeed, you deny the Retribution.
God has prepared for them gardens underneath which rivers flow, therein to dwell forever; that is the mighty triumph.
You and what you worship instead of God will be fuel for hell: to it you shall all come --
A mercy from your Lord; indeed He only is the All Hearing, the All Knowing.
And (remember) Isma'il, Idris, and Zul-kifl, all (men) of constancy and patience;
We have put yokes round their necks right up to their chins, so that their heads are forced up (and they cannot see).
And what is with them that Allah should not punish them, whereas in fact they prevent from the Sacred Mosque and they are not worthy (of being the custodians) of it; only the pious are its befitting custodians, but most of them do not have knowledge.
In an assembly of virtue, in the presence of an Omnipotent King.
Reclining upon couches lined with silk brocade, the fruit of both the gardens near to hand.
And whenever any surah is revealed enjoining: "Believe in Allah and strive (in His Way) along with His Messenger," the affluent among them ask you to excuse them, saying: "Leave us with those who will sit back at home."
But the wrongdoers changed the saying with other than what they were told. So We sent down on those who were wrongdoers a plague from the sky because of the transgressions they used to commit.
So he returned to his people, angry and disappointed. He said, “O my people, did your Lord not promise you a good promise? Was the time too long for you? Or did you want wrath from your Lord to descend upon you, so you broke your promise to me?”
When the two receiving angels receive from him, one seated on the right and one on the left.
Say: 'Shall I tell you of a better thing than that? For the cautious with their Lord, theirs shall be Gardens underneath which rivers flow, where they shall live for ever, and purified spouses, and pleasure from Allah' Allah is watching over His worshipers.
Have they determined an affair? then verily We are also determining.
Woe that Day to the deniers (of the Day of Resurrection)!
And I ask of you no wage therefor; my wage is the concern only of the Lord of the Worlds.
In their hearts is a disease (of doubt and hypocrisy) and Allah has increased their disease. A painful torment is theirs because they used to tell lies.
So where are you going?
And Allah has brought you forth from the wombs of your mothers-- you did not know anything-- and He gave you hearing and sight and hearts that you may give thanks.
"And surely, Hell is the promised place for them all.
On the day when hidden thoughts shall be searched out.
(Jesus only said:) "Surely God is my Lord and your Lord, so worship Him. This is the straight path."
The ignorant have asked, "Why does He not speak to us and why has no evidence come to show us (that He exists)?" People before them had also asked such questions. They all think in the same way. We have already made the evidence very clear for those who have certainty.
The believers are only the ones who have believed in Allah and His Messenger and then doubt not but strive with their properties and their lives in the cause of Allah. It is those who are the truthful.
by the night when it journeys on!
The ignorant have asked, "Why does He not speak to us and why has no evidence come to show us (that He exists)?" People before them had also asked such questions. They all think in the same way. We have already made the evidence very clear for those who have certainty.
Has there not been over man a period of time, when he was nothing to be mentioned?
And when we heard the guidance, we believed in it. Whoever believes in his Lord fears neither loss, nor burden.
Then, when they had both surrendered (to Allah), and he had flung him down upon his face,
Whether you reveal anything, or whether you conceal it, surely God has knowledge of everything.
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
Say, "Who provides for you from the heavens and the earth?" Say, "Allah. And indeed, we or you are either upon guidance or in clear error."
They do not bring you any representation but that We bring you the truth [in reply to them] and the best exposition.
God has purchased from the believers their lives and their properties in exchange for Paradise. They fight in God’s way, and they kill and get killed. It is a promise binding on Him in the Torah, and the Gospel, and the Quran. And who is more true to his promise than God? So rejoice in making such an exchange—that is the supreme triumph.
Wi-Fi connection %d
Say: 'The knowledge (of that) is with Allah; I am only a clear warner'
O ye who believe! Remember Allah with much remembrance.
When your Lord said to the angels, ‘Indeed I am about to create a human being out of clay.
Extract archives to the specified folder and quit the program
He neither begat, nor was begotten,
Be steadfast in prayer, pay the religious tax (zakat) and bow down in worship with those who do the same.
And when We show favour to man, he withdraws and turns away, but when evil touches him, then he has recourse to long supplications.
Whatever mercy Allah opens to people, none can withhold; and whatever He withholds none can release after Him. He is the Almighty, the Wise.
And Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth, and to Allah is the eventual coming.
And when you said to Moses: 'We will not believe in you until we see Allah openly' a thunderbolt struck you whilst you were looking.
And when We decreed death for him, nothing showed his death to them save a creeping creature of the earth which gnawed away his staff. And when he fell the jinn saw clearly how, if they had known the Unseen, they would not have continued in despised toil.
O ye who believe! Take not for friends unbelievers rather than believers: Do ye wish to offer Allah an open proof against yourselves?
The hosts will all be routed and will turn and flee.
A token unto them is the dead earth. We revive it, and We bring forth from it grain so that they eat thereof;
Reclining on green cushions and beautiful fine carpets.
The chiefs of Pharaoh's people said, “Will you let Moses and his people cause trouble in the land, and forsake you and your gods?” He said, “We will kill their sons, and spare their women. We have absolute power over them.”
Verily! This is the true narrative [about the story of 'Iesa (Jesus)], and, La ilaha ill-Allah (none has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the One and the Only God, Who has neither a wife nor a son). And indeed, Allah is the All-Mighty, the All-Wise.
No misfortune can happen on earth or in your souls but is recorded in a decree before We bring it into existence: That is truly easy for Allah:
In fact, our data is not familiar with, but it is a negative number of talents.
He raised the heaven on high and set the scale.
(Moses) said: Your tryst shall be the day of the feast, and let the people assemble when the sun hath risen high.
When a sign comes to them, they say, “We will not believe unless we are given the like of what was given to God’s messengers.” God knows best where to place His message. Humiliation from God and severe torment will afflict the criminals for their scheming.
They said: O Shu'aib! we do not understand much of what you say and most surely we see you to be weak among us, and were it not for your family we would surely stone you, and you are not mighty against us.
And among us there are righteous folk and among us there are far from that. We are sects having different rules.
but he turned his back with his Assembly, saying: 'He is (either) a sorcerer or a mad man'
And We send down from the sky blessed water whereby We give growth unto gardens and the grain of crops,
On couches wrought of gold,
And We have made the sky a roof, protected; and they turn away from its signs.
And when it is said to them, “Follow what Allah has sent down”, they say, “On the contrary, we shall only follow that upon which we found our forefathers”; even if the devil was calling them to the punishment of hell?
Now we're repeating it in a square square square square square m] building, which is up to 60 million plants within the building.
He said: "Only Allah will bring it (the punishment) on you, if He will, and then you will escape not.
And to warn those who say, "Allah has taken a son."
And those who keep their duty to their Lord are driven unto the Garden in troops till, when they reach it, and the gates thereof are opened, and the warders thereof say unto them: Peace be unto you! Ye are good, so enter ye (the Garden of delight), to dwell therein;
So do you* portray that if you get governance, you would spread chaos in the land and sever your relations? (* The hypocrites)
So settle your plan, and come as one front. Today, whoever gains the upper hand will succeed.”
"And fear Him Who created you and the generations of the men of old."
Enter thou My Garden!
When they are asked: "What is it that your Lord has revealed?" They answer: "They are merely tales of olden times!"
He is created from a water gushing forth.
They planned a plan, and We planned a plan, but they did not notice.
And Musa said: O my people! if you believe in Allah, then rely on Him (alone) if you submit (to Allah).
Who created the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is in- between them in six days, then He established Himself on the Throne -the Compassionate! so, concernin Him, ask any one informed.
And assuredly We have propounded for mankind, in this Qur'an, every kind of similitude; and if thou bringest unto them a sign, those who disbelieve are sure to say: ye are but followers of falsehood.
And the forerunners, the forerunners -
That is their recompense, because they rejected Our signs and asked, "When we are reduced to bones and dust, shall we indeed be raised up as a new creation?"
Then will (man) have no power, nor any helper.
Say: 'Obey Allah and obey the Messenger. If you turn away, upon him only rests what is laid upon him, and upon you rests what is laid on you. If you obey him, you shall be guided. It is only for the Messenger to deliver a clear message'
Thus has He revealed to you, [O Muhammad], and to those before you - Allah, the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
Have they not seen that We have appointed a sanctuary secure, while all about them the people are snatched away? What, do they believe in vanity, and do they disbelieve in God's blessing?
So eat of the lawful and good food which Allah hath provided for you, and thank the bounty of your Lord if it is Him ye serve.
Then Allah sent a crow searching in the ground to show him how to hide the disgrace of his brother. He said, "O woe to me! Have I failed to be like this crow and hide the body of my brother?" And he became of the regretful.
When she heard of their sly whispers, she sent for them and prepared a banquet. To each she gave a knife, (then called Joseph saying:) 'Come and attend to them' When they saw him, they were so taken with him that they cut their hands, and said: 'Allah save us! This is no mortal, he is no other but a noble angel'
And on the day when the trumpet shall be blown, then those who are in the heavens and those who are in the earth shall be terrified except such as Allah please, and all shall come to him abased.
Then, as for those who believed (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism) and did righteous good deeds, their Lord will admit them to His Mercy. That will be the evident success.
(It will be said): 'Take him and bind him.
by those that direct an affair!
Has the story of Moses reached you?
I do not ask you any reward for it; my reward lies only with the Lord of all the worlds.
Surely those who say, "Our Lord is God," and remain firm [on that path] shall feel no fear, nor shall they grieve:
This is a people that have passed away; they shall have what they earned and you shall have what you earn, and you shall not be called upon to answer for what they did.
But whoever seeks beyond that, then those are the transgressors;
Who committed inordinacy in the cities,
Neither having the coolness of the shade nor availing against the flame.
Whosoever hath been imagining that Allah shall not make him victorious in the world and the Hereafter, let him stretch a cord up to the heaven and let him cut it, and let him look if his stratagem can do away that whereat he enrageth.
A party hath He led aright, while error hath just hold over (another) party, for lo! they choose the devils for protecting supporters instead of Allah and deem that they are rightly guided.
Bring me ingots of iron," (which they did) until the space between two mountain sides was filled up. "Blow your bellows," he said; (and they blew) until it was red hot. "Bring me molten brass," he said, "that I may pour over it."
On that Day, a cloud will appear rending the sky and the angels will be senthi down rank after rank.
It is ordained that no nation We have destroyed shall ever rise again,
He said: "We will certainly strengthen you through your brother and will invest both of you with such power that they shall not be able to hurt you. With the help of Our Signs the two of you and your followers will prevail."
And they used to carve dwellings in the hills, without fear.
Say, "Our Lord will gather us all together and issue the true Judgment about our differences. He is the Best Judge and All-knowing."
Say: 'O unbelievers,
Lord of the two Easts, Lord of the two Wests.
Verily Allah knoweth the Unseen of the heavens and the earth; and Allah is the Beholder of that which ye work.
They said, "Moses, will you throw down first, or shall we be the first to throw down?"
If you give alms openly, it is well; but if you do it secretly and give to the poor, that is better. This will absolve you of some of your sins; and God is cognisant of all you do.
And they say: Such cattle and crops are forbidden. No-one is to eat of them save whom we will - in their make-believe - cattle whose backs are forbidden, cattle over which they mention not the name of Allah. (All that is) a lie against Him. He will repay them for that which they invent.
Who set up along with Allah anot her god; presently they shall know.
This is how We deal with the guilty.
What is the matter with you? How do you judge?
He regulates all affairs from high to low, then they rise to perfection step by step in a (heavenly) day whose measure is a thousand years of your reckoning.
those are they brought nigh the Throne,
And they will cry: "O Malik (Keeper of Hell)! Let your Lord make an end of us." He will say: "Verily you shall abide forever."
Everyone on it must pass away.
Say, "It is God I serve, sincere in my faith in Him alone --
If you give alms openly, it is well; but if you do it secretly and give to the poor, that is better. This will absolve you of some of your sins; and God is cognisant of all you do.
O my people, do not let your defiance toward me lead you to be visited by the like of what was visited on the people of Noah, or the people of Hud, or the people of Salih, and the people of Lot are not distant from you.
Is he to whom We have promised a goodly promise which he shall meet with like him whom We have provided with the provisions of this world's life, then on the day of resurrection he shall be of those who are brought up?
A Messenger from their own people came to them and they called him a liar. Torment struck them because of their injustice.
That We may go on showing you Our greater signs.
If you lapse back after receiving the clear teachings that have come to you, know it well that Allah is All-Powerful, All-Wise.
Have the unbelievers been duly rewarded for their deeds?
And when he reached his maturity We vouchsafed unto him judgement and knowledge; and Thus We recompense the well-doers.
Yet there be men who take to themselves compeers apart from God, loving them as God is loved; but those that believe love God more ardently. O if the evildoers might see, when they see the chastisement, that the power altogether belongs to God, and that God is terrible in chastisement,
So whoever changes the will after he has heard it – its sin is only upon those who change it; indeed Allah is the All Hearing, the All Knowing.
those whose lives the angels take in a state of purity, saying [to them], "Peace be on you; enter the Garden, because of [the good] which you did [in the world]."
The ignorant have asked, "Why does He not speak to us and why has no evidence come to show us (that He exists)?" People before them had also asked such questions. They all think in the same way. We have already made the evidence very clear for those who have certainty.
He said: Did I not say that you will not be able to have patience with me?
We have brought to them a Book which We have made plain based upon knowledge, a guidance and a mercy to believers.
indeed what you are promised is true,
O ye who believe! When the call is proclaimed to prayer on Friday (the Day of Assembly), hasten earnestly to the Remembrance of Allah, and leave off business (and traffic): That is best for you if ye but knew!
To those who say: "God has ordained that we should not believe an apostle who does not bring burnt offerings," say: "Many an apostle had come to you before me with manifest proofs, even with what you mention; then why did you kill them if you were men of truth?"
Had your Lord willed, He would have made mankind a single nation. But they continue in their differences
It is He who kept peace between you and the people of the valley of Mecca after having given you a victory over them. God is Well Aware of what you do.
We have given all kinds of examples for the human being in this Quran so that perhaps he may take heed.
This is certainly true—the feuding of the people of the Fire.
On a straight path.
That is because Allah! He is the Truth, because whatsoever they call upon beside Him is falsehood, and because He is the Exalted, the Grand.
How evil an example [is that of] the people who denied Our signs and used to wrong themselves.
And be not weak hearted in pursuit of the enemy; if you suffer pain, then surely they (too) suffer pain as you suffer pain, and you hope from Allah what they do not hope; and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
To you your religion, and to me my religion!'
And they say, "When is this promise, if you should be truthful?"
Say: "O creatures of God, those of you who have acted against your own interests should not be disheartened of the mercy of God. Surely God forgives all sins. He is all-forgiving and all-merciful.
And those who fear the punishment of their Lord.
Lest ye should say: the Book was only sent down to the two sects before us, and we in sooth were unaware of their readings.
Would that you could see (on the Day of Judgment) that criminals, with their heads hanging down before their Lord, saying, "Our Lord, we have seen and heard. Send us back to act righteously. Now we have strong faith".
so that We may thereby bring forth grain and vegetation,
Should Allah visit you with some distress there is no one to remove it except Him; and should He bring you some good, then He has power over all things.
We created the human being from clay, from molded mud.
"Were not My Verses (this Quran) recited to you, and then you used to deny them?"
Allah enlarges the provision for whom He wills of His slaves, and straitens it for whom (He wills). Verily, Allah is the All-Knower of everything.
To Him belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: for verily Allah,- He is free of all wants, Worthy of all Praise.
He has subjected to you the night, the day, the sun and the moon. The stars are subjected by His Command. Surely, in that there is a sign for a nation who understands.
And We helped them, so they were victorious.
Indeed, We subjected the mountains [to praise] with him, exalting [Allah] in the [late] afternoon and [after] sunrise.
She said: How can I have a son when no mortal hath touched me, neither have I been unchaste?
These are the communications of Allah which We recite to you with truth, and Allah does not desire any injustice to the creatures.
Recite unto them the story of Noah, when he told his people: O my people! If my sojourn (here) and my reminding you by Allah's revelations are an offence unto you, in Allah have I put my trust, so decide upon your course of action you and your partners. Let not your course of action be in doubt for you. Then have at me, give me no respite.
That He may know that they have indeed conveyed the messages of their Lord. He surroundeth all their doings, and He keepeth count of all things.
Those with whom you make an agreement, then they break their agreement every time and they do not guard (against punishment).
o'erspread with darkness --
So We revealed to Moses' mother, 'Suckle him, then, when thou fearest for him, cast him into the sea, and do not fear, neither sorrow, for We shall return him to thee, and shall appoint him one of the Envoys.'
The people of Noah disbelieved the messengers.
There, the believers were tried and shaken with a mighty shaking.
He shall say: I have wasted much wealth.
And Musa said: O Firon! surely I am an apostle from the Lord of the worlds:
or We show you a part of that which We have promised them, for indeed We have power over them.
"Now - as another Sign - place your hand under your arm and it will come out sheer white without harm (or stain).
a day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of all Being?
We revealed to Moses and his brother [saying], ‘Settle your people in the city, and let your houses face each other, and maintain the prayer, and give good news to the faithful.’
Has he looked into the unseen, or has he taken from the Most Merciful a promise?
Verily the fellows of the Garden to-day shall be happily employed.
Allah has not taken any offspring, neither is there any god besides Him, for then each god would take away what he created, and some of them would surely rise up against others. Clear is Allah of what they allege!
And when he brought them the truth from Us, they said, 'Slay the sons of those who believe with him, and spare their women.' But the guile of the unbelievers is ever in error.
and they shall murmur to one another, "You stayed only ten days on the earth" --
We created you, then We shaped you, then We said to the angels, “Bow down before Adam;” so they bowed down, except for Satan; he was not of those who bowed down.
He said, “My Lord is Well Aware of what you do.”
So He rendered them like straw eaten up?
So watch out for the Day when the sky produces a visible smoke.
And hearkens to its Lord and is dutiful,
Allah (Himself) doth mock them, leaving them to wander blindly on in their contumacy.
And when the angels said, 'Mary, God has chosen thee, and purified thee; He has chosen thee above all women.
When they are told to say their prayers, they do not bow down (in prayer).
He knows what is before them and what is behind them and to Allah are all affairs turned back.
That is for what your hands have put forth and because Allah is not ever unjust to [His] servants."
Did He not make their plan go wrong,
Have We not given him two eyes,
And they say: Fire shall touch us not save for a few numbered days. Say thou: have ye taken a covenant with Allah, so that Allah shall not fail His covenant? or fabricate ye against Allah that which ye know not
Every soul will be recompensed fully for what it has done, and He is best aware of what they do.
In order that Allah may distinguish the vile from the good; and the vile He shall place one upon anot her, and shall pile it all together, and shall place it into Hell. Those! it is they who are the losers.
In whispers will they consult each other: "Yet tarried not longer than ten (Days);
No indeed! Their own deeds have cast a veil over their hearts.
The mutual rivalry for piling up (the good things of this world) diverts you (from the more serious things),
In the alternation of night and day, and in all that Allah has created in the heavens and the earth, surely there are signs for people who are cautious.
Whatever misfortune befalls you is a consequence of your deeds; yet He forgives much.
The likeness of Paradise, that is promised to the godfearing: beneath it rivers flow, its produce is eternal, and its shade. That is the requital of the god-fearing; and the requital of the unbelievers is -- the Fire!
And a multitude from the later generations.
They said, “O Zul-Qarnain – indeed Yajuj and Majuj* are spreading chaos in the land – so shall we assign for you a consideration upon the condition that you set up a wall between us and them?” (* Gog and Magog.)
Have you not seen that to Allah prostrate all who are in the heavens and all who are in the earth, the sun and the moon, the stars and the mountains, the trees and the beasts, and many people? And many deserve the punishment. He who is abased by Allah has none to honor him. Allah does what He will.
He said: Bring ye me good tidings (of a son) when old age hath overtaken me? Of what then can ye bring good tidings?
Then We inspired Moses, saying: Smite the sea with thy staff. And it parted, and each part was as a mountain vast.
The seven heavens and the earth and all that is therein praise Him, and there is not a thing but hymneth His praise; but ye understand not their praise. Lo! He is ever Clement, Forgiving.
About the great news -
He has only forbidden you what dies of itself, and blood, and flesh of swine, and that over which any other (name) than (that of) Allah has been invoked; but whoever is driven to necessity, not desiring, nor exceeding the limit, no sin shall be upon him; surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
indeed what you are promised is true,
Surely Allah holds the heavens and the earth, lest they should be displaced there, for if they were displaced none would be able to hold them after Him. Surely He is Most Forbearing, Most Forgiving.
Their call therein will be, ‘O Allah! Immaculate are You!’ and their greeting therein will be, ‘Peace!’ and their concluding call, ‘All praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of all the worlds.’
They do not value God as He should be valued. God is Strong and Powerful.
He verily deemed that he would never return (unto Allah).
Then a fish swallowed him, and he was blameworthy.
They will not avail you in the least against God. Surely the wicked are each other's friends, but God befriends those who fear and follow the right path.
It will not be in accordance with your desires (Muslims), nor those of the people of the Scripture (Jews and Christians), whosoever works evil, will have the recompense thereof, and he will not find any protector or helper besides Allah.
and part of the night; bow down before Him and magnify Him through the long night.
Allah has promised the hypocrite men and hypocrite women and the disbelievers the fire of Hell, wherein they will abide eternally. It is sufficient for them. And Allah has cursed them, and for them is an enduring punishment.
Nay! We cast the truth against the falsehood, so that it breaks its head, and lo! it vanishes; and woe to you for what you describe;
Say: "If angels had peopled the earth and walked about in peace and quiet, We would surely have sent to them an angel as messenger.
It is a tree that grows from the bottom of Hell;
Lo! those who wrangle concerning the revelations of Allah without a warrant having come unto them, there is naught else in their breasts save pride which they will never attain. So take thou refuge in Allah. Lo! He, only He, is the Hearer, the Seer.
Have they not travelled in the land to see the nature of the consequence for those who disbelieved before them? They were mightier than these in power and (in the) traces (which they left behind them) in the earth. Yet Allah seized them for their sins, and they had no protector from Allah.
And the earth -- We stretched it forth, and cast on it firm mountains, and We caused to grow therein of every joyous kind
[This is] a Book that has been sent down to you—so let there be no disquiet in your heart on its account that you may warn thereby—and as an admonition for the faithful.
A sign for them is the dead earth, which We revive and bring forth grain out of it, so they eat of it.
Lo! I fear for you the retribution of an awful day.
So make no haste against them; We only count out to them a (limited) number (of the days of the life of this world and delay their term so that they may increase in evil and sins).
They said: "We were oppressed before you came, and have been since you have come to us." He answered: "It may well be that soon God may destroy your enemy and make you inherit the land, and then see how you behave."
That which you are promised is sure to come. You shall not frustrate Me.
They wish that you too should turn disbelievers the way they did, so that you all may become equal – so do not befriend any of them until they forsake their homes and families in Allah’s cause; then if they turn back, seize them and kill them wherever you find them; and do not take any of them as a friend nor as a supporter.
That is for what your hands have put forth and because Allah is not ever unjust to [His] servants."
The evils of what they had done will appear to them, and they will be besieged by what they used to deride.
In fact they deny the Last Day; and We have kept prepared a blazing fire for those who deny the Last Day.
Blackness will cover them:
If We had so willed, We could certainly have brought every soul its true guidance: but the Word from Me will come true, "I will fill Hell with Jinns and men all together."
And when We made the House (at Makka) a resort for mankind and sanctuary, (saying): Take as your place of worship the place where Abraham stood (to pray). And We imposed a duty upon Abraham and Ishmael, (saying): Purify My house for those who go around and those who meditate therein and those who bow down and prostrate themselves (in worship).
a tongue, and two lips,
Gardens of perpetual residence, which they will enter, beneath which rivers flow. They will have therein whatever they wish. Thus does Allah reward the righteous -
except for our first death? Are we not going to be punished?
The best among them said: Said I not unto you: Why glorify ye not (Allah)?
But when We removed the plague from them till a term which they should attain lo! they broke (the promise).
We have assigned companions to them, who make what is before them and behind them seem fair to them. The statement has been realized against them in nations of people and jinn alike that passed away before them they were indeed the losers.
And if We send a wind and they see their fields yellow because of it, then indeed they would become ungrateful after it.
Those who are righteous—when an impulse from Satan strikes them, they remind themselves, and immediately see clearly.
The believers, both men and women, are guides to each other. They order what is just and forbid what is evil; they establish their prayers and pay the obligatory charity and obey Allah and His Messenger. On these Allah will have mercy. He is Mighty, Wise.
(From) the Lord of the heavens and the earth, and all between, (Allah) Most Gracious: None shall have power to argue with Him.
But if you do (it) not, then be apprised of war from Allah and His Apostle; and if you repent, then you shall have your capital; neither shall you make (the debtor) suffer loss, nor shall you be made to suffer loss.
And indeed, he is to that a witness.
If you lend a goodly loan to God, He will double it for you, and forgive you. God knows the worth of good deeds and is clement,
As a Bounty from your Lord! That will be the supreme success!
Or, lest it should say: had Allah but guided me, I should surely have been of the God-fearing!
And one leg will be joined with another:
And even if We opened unto them a gate of heaven and they kept mounting through it,
O you who have believed, fear Allah and give up what remains [due to you] of interest, if you should be believers.
And he had fruit; he therefore said to his companion – and he used to debate with him – “I exceed you in wealth, and am more powerful in respect of men.”
The sound of silence.
and confers no favor upon anyone for recompense
They said: "Woe to us; surely we were wrong-doers."
When you see them their bodies please you, but when they speak and you listen to their sayings, they are like proppedup timber. Every shout (they hear) they take it to be against them. They are the enemy be wary of them. Allah kills them! How perverse they are!
Then We drowned the rest.
Love is, of course, the best thing.
We never sent a Messenger before you except that We revealed to him saying: 'There is no god except Me, therefore, worship Me'
Moses said: "Do not take me to task at my forgetfulness, and do not be hard on me."
who sees you when you stand [for prayer],
Therefore declare openly what you are bidden and turn aside from the polytheists.
It is Allah who made for you the grazing animals upon which you ride, and some of them you eat.
It will be said (to them): "Enter you the gates of Hell, to abide therein. And (indeed) what an evil abode of the arrogant!"
(It will be said to them): “My servants, today you have nothing to fear or regret,
"Now I fear (what) my relatives (and colleagues) (will do) after me: but my wife is barren: so give me an heir as from Thyself,-
into boiling water and then they will be burned in the fire.
Said Firaun to the court members around him, “He is indeed an expert magician.”
Or have they taken for worship (other) aliha (gods) besides Him? Say: "Bring your proof:" This (the Quran) is the Reminder for those with me and the Reminder for those before me. But most of them know not the Truth, so they are averse.
"O my father! to me hath come knowledge which hath not reached thee: so follow me: I will guide thee to a way that is even and straight.
Would you order righteousness on others and forget it yourselves? Yet you recite the Book, have you no sense?
He knows what is in the heavens and the earth, and knows what you hide and what you disclose; God knows what is in the hearts.
That indeed is a division unfair!
(It will be said): 'Eat and drink with a good appetite because of what you did in days long passed'
O you who believe! do not follow the footsteps of the Shaitan, and whoever follows the footsteps of the Shaitan, then surely he bids the doing of indecency and evil; and were it not for Allah's grace upon you and His mercy, not one of you would have ever been pure, but Allah purifies whom He pleases; and Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
Until, when he reached [a pass] between two mountains, he found beside them a people who could hardly understand [his] speech.
such as are niggardly, and bid men to be niggardly. And whosoever turns away, God is the All-sufficient, the All-laudable.
Yet they ascribe to jinns a partnership with God, although He created them; and they ascribe to Him sons and daughters, without possessing any knowledge. All praise be to Him. He is much too exalted for things they associate (with Him).
This is how We reward the virtuous.
The gardens of perpetuity which the Beneficent Allah has promised to His servants while unseen; surely His promise shall come to pass.
What prevented her (from accepting the True Faith) was her worshipping deities other than Allah, for she belonged to an unbelieving people.
O Mary! Be obedient to thy Lord, prostrate thyself and bow with those who bow (in worship).
Surely in that are signs, and surely We put to the test.
On the day when Allah will raise them up all together, then inform them of what they did: Allah has recorded it while they have forgotten it; and Allah is a witness of all things.
They shall not hear therein any vain word, but they shall hear only peace; and therein they shall have their provision morning and evening. *Chapter: 19
And have sent down from the rainy clouds abundant water.
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
And also a tree that springeth forth from mount Sinai, that groweth oil and is a sauce for the eaters.
Every man of them shall on that day have an affair which will occupy him.
They will say: "Woe to us! Who has raised us up from our place of sleep." (It will be said to them): "This is what the Most Beneficent (Allah) had promised, and the Messengers spoke truth!"
Then the end of those who committed evil was evil, for they belied the signs of God, and they derided them.
I will punish him most severely, or slay him, unless he gives me a valid excuse.”
Or have We sent down to them an authority that speaks of that they associate with Him?
And when the children among you come to puberty then let them ask leave even as those before them used to ask it. Thus Allah maketh clear His revelations for you. Allah is Knower, Wise.
whereon they are at variance.
Nothing prevents that their expendings be accepted except that they disbelieve in Allah and His Messenger, and whenever they come to the Prayer they do so lazily, and whenever they spend they do so grudgingly.
(Remember) when Yusuf (Joseph) said to his father: "O my father! Verily, I saw (in a dream) eleven stars and the sun and the moon, I saw them prostrating themselves to me."
What! Do they take for intercessors others besides Allah? Say: "Even if they have no power whatever and no intelligence?"
You do not ask them any reward for it: it is just a reminder for all the nations.
We have written in the Psalms, after the Remembrance: 'The righteous among My worshipers shall inherit the earth'
What, has he forged a lie about Allah, or is he mad' No, those who do not believe in the Everlasting Life are in the punishment and in far error.
What you give on interest to increase (your capital) through others' wealth, does not find increase with God; yet what you give (in alms and charity) with a pure heart, seeking the way of God, will be doubled.
Or do they say, "In him is madness?" Rather, he brought them the truth, but most of them, to the truth, are averse.
When We recite it, follow its recitation (by Us).
And comfort wherein they were amused.
until We opened the gate of greater torment (death) and they suddenly found themselves in despair.
And Allah will never lead a people astray after He has guided them until He makes clear to them as to what they should avoid. Verily, Allah is the All-Knower of everything.
This is guidance; and (as for) those who disbelieve in the communications of their Lord, they shall have a painful punishment on account of uncleanness.
So there came upon the garden an affliction from your Lord while they were asleep.
O ye who believe! Fasting is prescribed for you, even as it was prescribed for those before you, that ye may ward off (evil);
They will also say, "Had We listened or used our minds, we would not have become the dwellers of hell".
So remain, (O Muhammad), you and those who have returned with you (to the fold of faith and obedience from unbelief and rebellion) steadfast (in adhering to the straight way) as you were commanded. And do not exceed the limits of (service to Allah). For certainly He is aware of all what you do.
But repentance is not [accepted] of those who [continue to] do evil deeds up until, when death comes to one of them, he says, "Indeed, I have repented now," or of those who die while they are disbelievers. For them We have prepared a painful punishment.
Say: "With Allah is the argument that reaches home: if it had been His will, He could indeed have guided you all."
'We brought you the truth, but most of you were averse to the truth.'
He will sip it with difficulty but be unable to swallow, and death will approach him from every side and he will not die; and a severe punishment is after him.
They shall have no food but of thorns,
Say, “Shall I seek a Lord other than Allah, whereas He is Lord of all things?” And whatever a soul earns is itself responsible for it; and no load bearing soul will bear anyone else’s load; then towards your Lord you have to return and He will inform you about the matters you differed.
What cause have ye why ye should not believe in Allah?- and the Messenger invites you to believe in your Lord, and has indeed taken your Covenant, if ye are men of Faith.
The adulterer shall not marry save an adulteress or an idolatress, and the adulteress none shall marry save an adulterer or an idolater. All that is forbidden unto believers.
And if you asked them, “Who created the heavens and the earth and regulated the sun and the moon?” They would say, “God.” Why then do they deviate?
Even if every sign should come to them, - until they see the painful torment.
Say, "It is God I serve, sincere in my faith in Him alone --
those are they brought nigh the Throne,
He said: O Nuh! surely he is not of your family; surely he is (the doer of) other than good deeds, therefore ask not of Me that of which you have no knowledge; surely I admonish you lest you may be of the ignorant
That when we have died and become dust and bones, we will indeed be recompensed?'"
But if you do (it) not and never shall you do (it), then be on your guard against the fire of which men and stones are the fuel; it is prepared for the unbelievers.
How then were My chastisement and My warnings?
And the mountains are removed and will be [but] a mirage.
Surely the pious shall drink of a cup whose mixture is camphor,
So, if they cry thee lies, say: 'Your Lord is of mercy all-embracing, and His might will never be turned back from the people of the sinners.'
So did (Allah) convey the Inspiration to His slave [Muhammad SAW through Jibrael (Gabriel)].
And those who are fearful of their Lord's doom -
And on the earth are signs for the certain [in faith]
and persisted in heinous sins.
and that it is He who causes to die, and causes to live
therein to dwell for ever; they shall find neither protector nor helper.
Nay! Nay! they shall soon know.
I am for you a faithful Messenger,
Are we then not to die
Those who do not believe in the words of God are verily not guided by God. For them is severe punishment.
But as for him who is given his book in his left hand, he will say, “I wish I was never given my book.
He said in the "Boo King" six and a half years ago.
And this ceased not to be their cry till We made them cut off, extinct.
We did not send any apostle before you but that We revealed to him that ‘There is no god except Me; so worship Me.’
But they turned away (from Allah), and We sent against them the Flood (the city) from the dam, and We converted their two garden (rows) into "gardens" producing bitter fruit, and tamarisks, and some few ( Here) Lote-trees.
A fire that melts the hide.
It was but one Shout, and lo! they were extinct.
Believers, when you come to the Messenger for private consultation, offer some charity before your consultation with him. That is better for you and more conducive to purity. But if you find nothing to offer in charity, then know that Allah is Most Merciful, Most Compassionate.
Each of those gardens brought forth its produce, and failed not in the least therein: in the midst of them We caused a river to flow.
They ask you [Prophet] about the Last Hour, "When will it come?" Say, "Knowledge about it rests only with my Lord; He alone will reveal when its time will come, it lies heavy on the heavens and the earth: it will suddenly overtake you." They will put questions to you as though you had full knowledge of it. Say, "Knowledge about it rests only with God, though most people do not realize it."
A lying, sinful forelock!
But when he brought them Our signs, at once they laughed at them.
And (it was said unto him): Take in thine hand a branch and smite therewith, and break not thine oath. Lo! We found him steadfast, how excellent a slave! Lo! he was ever turning in repentance (to his Lord).
Whenever, in their anguish, they would go forth from thence they are driven back therein and (it is said unto them): Taste the doom of burning.
That is because they opposed Allah and His Messenger. And whoever opposes Allah - then indeed, Allah is severe in penalty.
Certainly Allah turned clemently to the Prophet and the Emigrants and the Helpers, who followed him in the hour of difficulty, after the hearts of a part of them were about to swerve. Then He turned clemently to them—indeed, He is most kind and merciful to them
And marry those among you who are single (i.e. a man who has no wife and the woman who has no husband) and (also marry) the Salihun (pious, fit and capable ones) of your (male) slaves and maid-servants (female slaves). If they be poor, Allah will enrich them out of His Bounty. And Allah is All-Sufficient for His creatures' needs, All-Knower.
We shall certainly test you until We know those of you who truly strive and remain steadfast, and will ascertain about you.
So remain, (O Muhammad), you and those who have returned with you (to the fold of faith and obedience from unbelief and rebellion) steadfast (in adhering to the straight way) as you were commanded. And do not exceed the limits of (service to Allah). For certainly He is aware of all what you do.
That (is the command). And whoso magnifieth the sacred things of Allah, it will be well for him in the sight of his Lord. The cattle are lawful unto you save that which hath been told you. So shun the filth of idols, and shun lying speech,
And we used to deny the Day of Judgment,
Neither cool nor agreeable.
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
On the day when We gather them all together, We shall say to those who ascribed partners [to Allah] ‘Where are your partners that you used to claim?’
Allah said: 'This land will now be forbidden to them for forty years and they will remain wandering about on the earth. Do not grieve over the condition of these transgressing people.
We showed him the right path whether he would be grateful or ungrateful.
Or do they say, "He has invented about Allah a lie"? But if Allah willed, He could seal over your heart. And Allah eliminates falsehood and establishes the truth by His words. Indeed, He is Knowing of that within the breasts.
and that you should serve Me? This is a straight path.
Those are they whom Allah hath cursed, and he whom Allah hath cursed, thou (O Muhammad) wilt find for him no helper.
No, rather, we have been prevented'
but the most wretched shall avoid it,
Remember ye implored the assistance of your Lord, and He answered you: "I will assist you with a thousand of the angels, ranks on ranks."
He said, "Then do you see what you have been worshipping,
And other (punishment) of the same kind-- of various sorts.
And indeed, they were about to drive you from the land to evict you therefrom. And then [when they do], they will not remain [there] after you, except for a little.
Therefore observe the result of Allah’s mercy, how He revives the earth after its death; He will indeed resurrect the dead; and He is Able to do all things.
Remember Allah through the appointed days. Then whoso hasteneth (his departure) by two days, it is no sin for him, and whoso delayeth, it is no sin for him; that is for him who wardeth off (evil). Be careful of your duty to Allah, and know that unto Him ye will be gathered.
To every nation a term; when their term comes they shall not put it back by a single hour nor put it forward.
[Pharaoh] said, "Then what is the case of the former generations?"
See how they lie against themselves, and (how) the thing which they devised hath failed them!
A provision for you and for your cattle.
"O Zachariah," (it was) said, "We give you good news of a son by name of John.' To none have We attributed the name before."
And what is that in your right hand, O Moses?"
Then He directed Himself to the heaven while it was smoke and said to it and to the earth, "Come [into being], willingly or by compulsion." They said, "We have come willingly."
For a tremendous Day -
when the mountains shall be set moving,
And what is the matter with you that you spend not in the Cause of Allah? And to Allah belongs the heritage of the heavens and the earth. Not equal among you are those who spent and fought before the conquering (of Makkah) (with those among you who did so later). Such are higher in degree than those who spent and fought afterwards. But to all, Allah has promised the best (reward). And Allah is All-Aware of what you do.
And his people came unto him rushing on toward him, and afore they were wont to work vices. He said. O my people! these are my daughters: purer are they for you; so fear Allah, and humiliate me not in the face of my guests; is there not among you any man right-minded?
Their Lord, on that Day, is fully informed of them.
Hell, wherein they roast: a wretched couch.
That which is with you is exhausted, and that which is with Allah is lasting. And We will surely recompense those who have been patient their hire for the best of that which they have been working
so that We might try them through this bounty. Whoso turns away from the remembrance of his Lord, He will cause him to suffer a grievous chastisement;
those who, when they take from others by measure, take their full share;
But nay! I swear by all that ye see
But if you do not find anyone in them, do not enter them until you are given permission. And if you are told: ‘Turn back,’ then do turn back. That is more decent for you. Allah knows best what you do.
O you who believe! be not forward in the presence of Allah and His Apostle, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah; surely Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
Take what is given freely, enjoin what is good, and turn away from the ignorant.
On the Day when Allah will resurrect them all together (for their account), then they will swear to Him as they swear to you (O Muslims). And they think that they have something (to stand upon). Verily, they are liars!
Thus the word of your Lord about those who disobey comes true, that they do not believe.
He said, “O my people! What is your opinion – if I am on a clear proof from my Lord and He has bestowed me with an excellent sustenance from Him (shall I ignore all this?); and the matter I forbid you to do, I do not wish that I myself act against it; I only intend to make improvements as far possible; my guidance is only from Allah; I rely only upon Him and towards Him only do I incline.”
Yes! whoever submits himself entirely to Allah and he is the doer of good (to others) he has his reward from his Lord, and there is no fear for him nor shall he grieve.
He said: remember ye that which ye did Unto Yusuf and his brother while ye were ignorant?
To how many unjust towns have We given respite and then sized with torment. To Me do all things return.
They will excuse themselves to you when you go back to them. Say: Urge no excuse, by no means will we believe you; indeed Allah has informed us of matters relating to you; and now Allah and His Apostle will see your doings, then you shall be brought back to the Knower of the unseen and the seen, then He will inform you of what you did.
The woman and the man guilty of adultery or fornication,- flog each of them with a hundred stripes: Let not compassion move you in their case, in a matter prescribed by Allah, if ye believe in Allah and the Last Day: and let a party of the Believers witness their punishment.
Say: 'Who shall guard you by night and in the daytime from the All-merciful?' Nay, but from the Remembrance of their Lord they are turning away.
Judge between them in the light of what has been revealed by God, and do not follow their whims, and beware of them lest they lead you away from the guidance sent down to you by God. If they turn away, then know that God is sure to punish them for some of their sins; and many of them are transgressors.
Every soul that hath sinned, if it possessed all that is on earth, would fain give it in ransom: They would declare (their) repentance when they see the penalty: but the judgment between them will be with justice, and no wrong will be done unto them.
Do not bestow favours in expectation of return,
Then eat from every [kind of] fruit and follow meekly the ways of your Lord.’ There issues from its belly a juice of diverse hues, in which there is a cure for the people. There is indeed a sign in that for a people who reflect.
And Moses said: O my people! If ye have believed in Allah then put trust in Him, if ye have indeed surrendered (unto Him)!
He who will cause me to die and bring me back to life;
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
And I have followed the creed of my fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Not ours is it to associate aught with God. That is of God's bounty to us, and to men; but most men are not thankful.
How many a Prophet did We send to the earlier peoples!
And they make the angels who themselves are slaves to the Most Beneficent (Allah) females. Did they witness their creation? Their evidence will be recorded, and they will be questioned!
Do not be like those who forget Allah, so He makes them forget their own souls. It is they who are the transgressors.
The king (of Egypt) said: "I do see (in a vision) seven fat kine, whom seven lean ones devour, and seven green ears of corn, and seven (others) withered. O ye chiefs! Expound to me my vision if it be that ye can interpret visions."
And We delivered him and his people from the great affliction.
We made a covenant with the Children of Israel and sent forth messengers among them. But whenever a messenger came to them with a message that was not to their liking, some they accused of lying, while others they put to death,
And when they are cast, bound together into a constricted place therein, they will plead for destruction there and then!
And lo! of the People of the Scripture there are some who believe in Allah and that which is revealed unto you and that which was revealed unto them, humbling themselves before Allah. They purchase not a trifling gain at the price of the revelations of Allah. Verily their reward is with their Lord. Lo! Allah is swift to take account.
They said: even so saith thine Lords Verily He! He is the Wise, the Knower.
We have revealed for you (O men!) a book in which is a Message for you: will ye not then understand?
The tribes of Thamud and 'Ad denied that disaster would strike them:
He said, "My people, is my tribe mightier to you than God? You put Him behind you, turning your backs on Him! Surely, my Lord encompasses all that you do.
We have explained things for people in this Qur'an in diverse ways to make them understand the Message, yet most people obstinately persist in unbelief.
and not be recompensed, except according to what you were doing.'
Verily! I have rewarded them this Day for their patience, they are indeed the ones that are successful.
Who fear their Lord unseen, while they are of the Hour apprehensive.
It was but one Shout, and lo! they were extinct.
And remember what is recited in your houses of the verses of Allah and wisdom. Indeed, Allah is ever Subtle and Acquainted [with all things].
The Messenger's sole duty is to convey the message. God knows what you reveal and what you hide.
And had We prescribed unto them: slay yourselves or go forth from your dwellings, they had not done it, save a few of them. And did they do that which they are exhorted to do, it would be for them better and more strengthening.
We made Solomon understand the law about the case and gave both David and Solomon knowledge and wisdom. We made the mountains and birds glorify the Lord along with David. We had also done to him such favors before.
surely it is on a way yet remaining;
So worship what you like besides Him. Say (O Muhammad SAW): "The losers are those who will lose themselves and their families on the Day of Resurrection. Verily, that will be a manifest loss!"
And recall what time Musa said unto his people: remember the favour of Allah upon you when He delivered you from the house of Fir'awn who were imposing upon you evil torment, slaughtering your sons and letting your women live, and therein was from your Lord a trial terrible.
And for their saying: verily We have slain the Messiah 'Isa son of Maryam, an apostle of Allah, whereas they slew him not, nor they crucified him but it was made dubious unto them. And verily those who differ therein are in doubt thereof, they have no knowledge thereof; they but follow an opinion; and surely they slew him not.
That is what they could reach of knowledge. Verily, your Lord it is He Who knows best him who goes astray from His Path, and He knows best him who receives guidance.
People of the Book! Why do you confound truth with falsehood, and knowingly hide the truth?
And they ask you about the soul. Say: The soul is one of the commands of my Lord, and you are not given aught of knowledge but a little.
When the magicians arrived, they said to Pharaoh, “Is there a reward for us, if we are the winners?”
And let those fear (in their behaviour toward orphans) who if they left behind them weak offspring would be afraid for them. So let them mind their duty to Allah, and speak justly.
We never sent a messenger who did not speak the tongue of his people, that he may explain to them distinctly. God leads whosoever He wills astray, and shows whoever He wills the way: He is all-mighty and all-wise.
Everyone in the heavens and the earth asks Him. Every day He is engaged in some work.
Allah - there is no deity except Him, Lord of the Great Throne."
The farmer says, "It's good or bad that it's hard."
When the night covered him over with darkness he saw a star. He said: "This is my lord." But when it set, he said: "I like not those that set."
In it are fruits and date-palms with sheaths,
Surely in that is a sign, yet most of them are not believers.
Allah said: then get thee down from hence; not for thee is it to be stiff-necked herein. So go thou forth; verily thou art of the abject ones.
Had Allah wished to take to Himself a son, He could have chosen whom He pleased out of those whom He doth create: but Glory be to Him! (He is above such things.) He is Allah, the One, the Irresistible.
They showed him the shirt with false blood on it. (Their father) said: "It is not so; you have made up the story. Yet endurance is best. I seek the help of God alone for what you impute."
But those among them who are well-grounded in knowledge, and the believers, believe in what hath been revealed to thee and what was revealed before thee: And (especially) those who establish regular prayer and practise regular charity and believe in Allah and in the Last Day: To them shall We soon give a great reward.
we are they that give glory.
Those who buy disbelief with belief will not harm Allah a thing, for them there is a painful punishment!
But those who disbelieve and deny Our signs - those are the companions of Hellfire.
"And O my people! Ask forgiveness of your Lord, and turn to Him (in repentance): He will send you the skies pouring abundant rain, and add strength to your strength: so turn ye not back in sin!"
And when We let mankind taste of mercy after an adversity hath touched them, forthwith they have a plot with regard to his signs. Say thou: Allah is swifter in plotting. Verily Our mesengers write down that which ye plot.
If any of your wives desert you to be with the unbelievers and you retaliate, give those whose wives who have deserted the equivalent of what they have spent. And fear Allah in whom you believe.
But when the truth came to them from Us, they said, "Why was he not given like that which was given to Moses?" Did they not disbelieve in that which was given to Moses before? They said, "[They are but] two works of magic supporting each other, and indeed we are, in both, disbelievers."
No Prophet came to them whom they did not mock.
We said, "Adam, [Satan] is an enemy to you and to your wife. Let him not turn you both out of Paradise and thus make you come to grief.
And We gave him good in this world, and in the next he will most surely be among the good.
When their brother Nuh said to them: Will you not guard (against evil)?
But Allah doth encompass them from behind!
And fight in the way of Allah and know that verily Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
The last thereof (that wine) will be the smell of musk, and for this let (all) those strive who want to strive (i.e. hasten earnestly to the obedience of Allah).
Those who spend their wealth in the way of Allah and then do not follow up what they have spent with reminders [of it] or [other] injury will have their reward with their Lord, and there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve.
Or be admonished, so that the admonition might have profited him?
Those unto whom when certain men said: verily the people have mustered strong against you, so be afraid of them, it only increased them in belief, and they said: sufficient unto us is Allah, and an excellent Trustee is He!
nor do we have a truly sincere friend.
Verily We! We have sent thee with the truth, as a bearer of glad tidings and as a warner; and there is not a community but there hath passed among them a warner.
Thus does Allah, the Most Mighty, the Most Wise reveal to you even as (He revealed) to those (Messengers) who preceded you.
about this life and the life hereafter. They ask you about the orphans. Tell them, "The best thing to do is what is for their good. They are your brethren if you would associate with them. God knows who is corrupt or a reformer. Had God wanted He would have brought upon you hardship. God is Majestic and All-wise.
In their stories is surely a lesson to men possessed of minds; it is not a tale forged, but a confirmation of what is before it, and a distinguishing of every thing, and a guidance, and a mercy to a people who believe.
They will hear no nonsense there or talk of sin,
"This (say I), in order that He may know that I have never been false to him in his absence, and that Allah will never guide the snare of the false ones.
His people had no answer to his remarks but to tell one another, "Expel him from our town; he and his people want to purify themselves."
These will have a share of what they have earned. God is swift in reckoning.
who know whatever you do.
And on that day We will leave a part of them in conflict with another part, and the trumpet will be blown, so We will gather them all together;
They shall have what they will of their Lord's bounty. That is the reward of the good:
and the sky will be split open—for it will be frail on that day—
We send down in the Quran that which is a cure and mercy for the faithful; and it increases the wrongdoers only in loss.
He who follows the Right Way shall do so to his own advantage; and he who strays shall incur his own loss. No one shall bear another's burden. And never do We punish any people until We send a Messenger (to make the Truth distinct from falsehood).
Then, when he saw the moon rising, he said, “This is my lord.” But when it set, he said, “If my Lord does not guide me, I will be one of the erring people.”
Tell them: "(Even if) you turn to stones or steel,
"And when I am ill, it is He Who cures me;
Then surely, We shall narrate unto them (their whole story) with knowledge, and indeed We were not absent.
And never will your Lord destroy the towns (populations) until He sends to their mother town a Messenger reciting to them Our Verses. And never would We destroy the towns unless the people thereof are Zalimun (polytheists, wrong-doers, disbelievers in the Oneness of Allah, oppressors and tyrants).
On the day that He will gather you for the day of gathering, that is the day of loss and gain; and whoever believes in Allah and does good, He will remove from him his evil and cause him to enter gardens beneath which rivers flow, to abide therein forever; that is the great achievement.
But those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations are the people of Hell.
Rather, they break the basic principle of leadership.
And if Allah should afflict you with harm, then there is none to remove it but He; and if He intends good to you there is none to repel His grace; He brings it to whom He pleases of His servants; and He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.
They said, "But we have come to you with that about which they were disputing,
Verily, We have sent you (O Muhammad Peace be upon him) with the truth (Islam), a bringer of glad tidings (for those who believe in what you brought, that they will enter Paradise) and a warner (for those who disbelieve in what you brought, they will enter the Hell-fire). And you will not be asked about the dwellers of the blazing Fire.
Nay, but they have denied the truth (this Quran) when it has come to them, so they are in a confused state (can not differentiate between right and wrong).
Every soul shall have a taste of death: and We test you by evil and by good by way of trial. to Us must ye return.
If you call upon them, they cannot hear your prayer. And if they hear it, they cannot answer it. On the Day of Resurrection they will disown you for associating others with Allah in His Divinity. No one can inform you of the truth save the All-Aware.
So these their habitations lie deserted now because of their iniquities. Verily there is a sign in this for those who understand.
Who hoard their wealth and enjoin avarice on others, and hide that which Allah hath bestowed upon them of His bounty. For disbelievers We prepare a shameful doom;
It has seven gates; for every gate is of them a portion designated."
They will surely say: God's. Say thou: will ye not then heed?
I do not worship what you worship.
And [recall] when We took your covenant, [saying], "Do not shed each other's blood or evict one another from your homes." Then you acknowledged [this] while you were witnessing.
He is only a man in whom is madness wherefore await for him for a season.
Say, "No one in the heavens and the earth has knowledge of the unseen except God." They do not know when they will be raised up again.
And not a sign We showed them, but it was greater than its sister sign; and We seized them with chastisement, that haply they should return.
Verily! Man is in loss,
And when the word shall come to be fulfilled concerning them, We shall bring forth a beast of the earth speaking unto them, that the people have not of Our signs been convinced.
And a sign for them is the night; We strip the day out of it, thereupon they are in darkness.
Believers, turn to God in sincere repentance; it may be that your Lord will acquit you of your evil deeds, and will admit you into gardens underneath which rivers flow. Upon the day when God will not degrade the Prophet and those who believe with him, their light running before them, and on their right hands; and they say, 'Our 'Lord, perfect for us our light, and forgive us; surely Thou art powerful over everything.'
Surely they who believe and do good deeds and keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate they shall have their reward from their Lord, and they shall have no fear, nor shall they grieve.
O children of Israel! call to mind My favor which I bestowed on you and be faithful to (your) covenant with Me, I will fulfill (My) covenant with you; and of Me, Me alone, should you be afraid.
So O men and jinns! Which favour of your Lord will you deny?
And they say, “Our hearts are screened from what you call us to, and in our ears is deafness, and between us and you is a barrier. So do what you want, and so will we.”
Whoever makes a breach with the Messenger, after the guidance has become clear to him, and follows other than the path of the believers, We will direct him in the direction he has chosen, and commit him to Hell—what a terrible destination!
Indeed, those who have believed and done righteous deeds - their Lord will guide them because of their faith. Beneath them rivers will flow in the Gardens of Pleasure
May Allah forgive you (O Muhammad SAW). Why did you grant them leave (for remaining behind, you should have persisted as regards your order to them to proceed on Jihad), until those who told the truth were seen by you in a clear light, and you had known the liars?
grain with its husk and aromatic herbs.
by the night and what it covers,
Our Lord, we have heard a caller calling us to belief, saying, "Believe you in your Lord!" And we believe. Our Lord, forgive Thou us our sins and acquit us of our evil deeds, and take us to Thee with the pious.
And We made the son of Mary and his mother a sign and sheltered them within a high ground having level [areas] and flowing water.
I was one of the most important times for me, actually learning to cross a street again as a blind person.
Thus We tell you, (Muhammad), the stories of the past and We have given you the Quran.
They will say: "Our Lord! twice hast Thou made us without life, and twice hast Thou given us Life! Now have we recognised our sins: Is there any way out (of this)?"
Remember your Lord deep in your very soul, in all humility and awe, without raising your voice, morning and evening, do not be one of the heedless,
O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the messenger, and make not vain your deeds!
To Allah belongs the kingdom of the heavens and the earth, and when the Hour sets in, the falsifiers will be losers on that day.
And remember when He made you successors after Ad and settled you in the land-- you make mansions on its plains and hew out houses in the mountains-- remember therefore Allah's benefits and do not act corruptly in the land, making mischief.
There is no harm for you to enter uninhabited houses where you have some goods. God knows whatever you reveal or hide.
Then you will see it with the eye of certainty.
and they absolutely belied Our verses,
Do they seek a judgement of the days of pagan ignorance? But who could be a better judge than God for those who are firm in their faith?
When We decide to destroy a town We command the affluent among them, whereupon they commit sins in it, then the decree (of chastisement) becomes due against them and thereafter We destroy that town utterly.
We were promised that before, we and our ancestors—these are nothing but legends of the ancients.”
Those who were before them [also] schemed; yet all devising belongs to Allah. He knows what every soul earns. Soon the faithless will know in whose favour the outcome of that abode will be.
Leave alone those who take their religion for play and diversion and whom the life of this world has deceived, and admonish with it, lest any soul should perish because of what it has earned: It shall not have any guardian besides Allah, nor any intercessor; and though it should offer every kind of ransom, it shall not be accepted from it. They are the ones who perish because of what they have earned; they shall have boiling water for drink and a painful punishment because of what they used to defy.
Then when He removeth the distress from you, forthwith a party of you with their Lord associate.
They will swear unto you in order that ye may be well- pleased with them. Then if ye are well-pleased with them, verily Allah will not be well-pleased with an ungodly people.
Like the boiling of scalding water.
Also, remember Our worshiper Job. He called out to his Lord, (saying): 'satan has afflicted me with harm and pain'
Have you not seen them wandering and bewildered in every valley
When Our revelations are recited to them (the unbelievers), they say, "We have heard them. Had we wanted, we could also have composed such statements; they are no more than ancient legends."
He neither begat, nor was begotten,
Except to a Messenger (from mankind) whom He has chosen (He informs him of unseen as much as He likes), and then He makes a band of watching guards (angels) to march before him and behind him.
Is it their intellect which prompts them to [say] this, or are they a rebellious lot?
when the earth is stretched out
Pharaoh asked, "What about the previous generations?"
Then, when they had both surrendered (to Allah), and he had flung him down upon his face,
They ask you about menstruation. Say, "It is an impurity, so keep away from women during it and do not approach them until they are cleansed; when they are cleansed you may approach them as God has ordained. God loves those who turn to Him in penitence and He loves those who keep themselves clean.
so that you may not grieve for what escapes you, nor boast for what comes your way, and Allah does not like any swaggering braggart.
It is He Who gives life and causes things to die. When He decides to do something, He only says, "Exist," and it comes into existence.
They said: It is the same to us whether you admonish or are not one of the admonishers
And of the night--keep the vigil therein, as an act of supererogation for thee; belike thy Lord will raise thee up in a station praised.
The Jews and Christians will never be pleased with you unless you follow their faith. (Muhammad) tell them that the guidance of God is the only true guidance. If you follow their wishes after all the knowledge that has come to you, you will no longer have God as your guardian and helper."
So the outcome for both of them is that they will be in the Fire, abiding eternally therein. And that is the recompense of the wrong-doers.
A revelation from He who created the earth and highest heavens,
Have no doubt that these people worship (idols). They worship what their fathers had worshipped before them. We will give them the exact recompense that they deserve.
Everyone on it must pass away.
'By Allah' they said, 'Allah has preferred you above us all. We have indeed been sinful'
But their belief was not going to profit them when they had seen Our punishment; (this is) Allah's law, which has indeed obtained in the matter of His servants, and there the unbelievers are lost.
But they turned their backs on him and went away.
And hold fast, all of you together, to the cable of Allah, and do not separate. And remember Allah's favour unto you: How ye were enemies and He made friendship between your hearts so that ye became as brothers by His grace; and (how) ye were upon the brink of an abyss of fire, and He did save you from it. Thus Allah maketh clear His revelations unto you, that haply ye may be guided,
Allah wishes to make clear (what is lawful and what is unlawful) to you, and to show you the ways of those before you, and accept your repentance, and Allah is All-Knower, All-Wise.
Why do not the rabbis and the religious learned men forbid them from uttering sinful words and from eating illegal things. Evil indeed is that which they have been performing.
But those who have earned evil will have a reward of like evil: ignominy will cover their (faces): No defender will they have from (the wrath of) Allah: Their faces will be covered, as it were, with pieces from the depth of the darkness of night: they are companions of the Fire: they will abide therein (for aye)!
And when Our revelations are recited unto him he turneth away in his stiff-neckedness as though he heard them not: as though there was a deafness in his ears. So announce thou unto him a torment afflictive.
Those who spend their wealth in the way of Allah and then do not follow up what they have spent with reminders [of it] or [other] injury will have their reward with their Lord, and there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve.
And when he arrived at the well of Midian, he found around it a group of men watering their flocks, and he saw two women standing apart from them, who were holding back their flocks, so he asked, "What is the matter with you?" They replied, "We cannot draw water until the shepherds take away their sheep. Our father is a very old man."
which We have made as a torment for the unjust?
"I found her and her people worshipping the sun instead of Allah, and Shaitan (Satan) has made their deeds fair-seeming to them, and has barred them from (Allah's) Way, so they have no guidance,"
Those who associate others with Allah in His divinity will now surely say: 'Had Allah willed, neither we nor our forefathers would have associated others with Allah in His divinity, nor would we have declared anything (which Allah did not forbid) as forbidden.' Even so those who had lived before them gave the lie (to the Truth) until they tasted Our chastisement. Tell them: 'Have you any sure knowledge that you can produce before us? In fact you are only following idle fancies, merely conjecturing.'
And multiplied iniquity therein?
Our messengers came to Abraham with good news and greeted him with, "Peace." He too said, "Peace be on you," and hastened to bring a roasted calf.
But verily the reward of the Hereafter is the best, for those who believe, and are constant in righteousness.
O ye who believe! be not forward in the presence of Allah and His apostle, and fear Allah; verily Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
Such is the Paradise which We shall cause those of Our servants who have been God-fearing to inherit.
And what aileth you that ye fight not in the way of Allah and for the oppressed among men and women and Children who say: our Lord! take US forth from this town whereof the people are Wrong-doing, and appoint us from before Thee a patron, and appoint us from before Thee a helper!
“What did I know of the heavenly world, when the angels had disputed.”
Cursed were the companions of the trench
Or (their efforts may be likened to those of a man trying to swim in) a deep dark ocean, covered with billows, one over the other, and above it a cloud: darkness upon darkness: so much so that if he stretches out his hand, he cannot see it. There is no light for the one whom Allah does not give light.
They say: “Shall we be created afresh after we have become lost in the earth?” Nay, the fact is that they deny that they will meet their Lord.
And do not drive away those who call upon their Lord at morning and evening desiring His countenance; nothing of their account falls upon thee, and nothing of thy account falls upon them, that thou shouldst drive them away, and so become one of the evildoers.
And We made them a precedent and an example for the later peoples.
and those who recite Our revelations,
And verily, it (the Quran, and its revelation to Prophet Muhammad SAW) is (mentioned) in the Scriptures [i.e. the Taurat (Torah) and the Injeel (Gospel)] of former people.
And they will [then] say, "We believe in it!" But how for them will be the taking [of faith] from a place far away?
Then We destroyed the others.
Cannot seduce away from Him.
So We forgave him that, and indeed he has [a station of] nearness with Us and a good destination.
He asks: "When will the Day of Resurrection be?"
He said: "Can I entrust him to you except as I entrusted his brother [Yusuf (Joseph)] to you aforetime? But Allah is the Best to guard, and He is the Most Merciful of those who show mercy."
This it is that ye are promised for the Day of Reckoning.
And he gathered [his people] and called out
And in the night also hallow Him, and at the setting of the stars.
He said, “Did I not tell you that you will not be able to endure with me?”
They said: what shall be the meed of him, if ye are found liars!
And (the Prophet) will say: "O Lord, these are certainly a people who do not believe."
Believers, do not be like those who hurt Moses. Allah cleared him of what they said. His face is honorable with Allah.
"We cannot find the master's goblet. Whoever comes up with it will be given a camel-load of grain; I vouch for it."
And fight them until no mischief remains, and only Allah is worshipped; then if they desist, do not harm them, except the unjust.
Wherefore Allah will reward them, for that which they said, with Gardens whereunder rivers flow as abiders therein: such is the recompense of the well-doers.
Saying: Put him into a chest, then cast it down into the river, then the river shall throw him on the shore; there shall take him up one who is an enemy to Me and enemy to him, and I cast down upon you love from Me, and that you might be brought up before My eyes;
Lo! it is ye who have contended for them in the life of the world; then who will contend for them with Allah on the Day of Resurrection, or who shall be their champion?
We made subservient to Solomon the swift wind that blew on his command to the land in which We had sent blessings. We have the knowledge of all things.
And it was revealed to Noah: “None of your people will believe, except those who have already believed, so do not grieve over what they do.”
All that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth belongs to Allah. We enjoined upon those who were given the Book before you, and also yourselves, to have fear of Allah. But if you disbelieve, then bear in mind that all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth belongs to Allah. Allah is Self-Sufficient, Most Praiseworthy.
That is the recompense of God's enemies -- the Fire, wherein they shall have the Abode of Eternity as a recompense, for that they denied Our signs.
Gardens of Eden which they enter, underneath which rivers flow, wherein they have what they will. Thus Allah repayeth those who ward off (evil),
And when We delivered you from Firon's people who subjected you to severe torment, killing your sons and sparing your women, and in this there was a great trial from your Lord.
O ye who believe! give your response to Allah and His Messenger, when He calleth you to that which will give you life; and know that Allah cometh in between a man and his heart, and that it is He to Whom ye shall (all) be gathered.
And as to those who hold fast to the Book (i.e. act on its teachings) and perform As-Salat (Iqamat-as-Salat), certainly, We shall never waste the reward of those who do righteous deeds.
If only the unbelievers knew of the Hour when they shall not be able to keep off the Fire from their faces, nor from their backs; nor shall they be helped.
Among His signs are night and day, and the sun and the moon. Do not prostrate to the sun, nor to the moon, but prostrate to Allah who created them, if it is Him that you worship.
And certainly the recompense of the life to come is better for those who believe and follow the right path.
The Knower of the Invisible and the Visible; the Grand, the Supreme.
Say: 'What think you? If God's chastisement comes upon you, suddenly or openly, shall any be destroyed, except the people of the evildoers?'
But his Lord chose him for His own and made him one of the righteous.
Today he has been left here friendless;
[We sent them] with manifest proofs and scriptures. We have sent down the reminder to you so that you may clarify for the people that which has been sent down to them, so that they may reflect.
But those whose scales are light - those are the ones who have lost their souls, [being] in Hell, abiding eternally.
They say: that then shall be a losing return.
When the two forces drew within seeing distance of each other, the people of Hud said: "We shall certainly be overtaken."
God has made your houses places of rest for you and made tents for you out of cattle hides, which are light for you to carry, both when you are travelling and when you are staying in one place. He provides for you from the wool and fur and hair of cattle, household goods and articles for use for a time.
"Peace and salutation to Moses and Aaron!"
So I responded in a great reply to Mr. So I wrote to Mr. F, thank you, thank you in heart that something doesn't change things.
After We had destroyed the earlier generations We bestowed the Book on Moses - a source of enlightenment for people and a guidance and mercy -- that they may take heed.
Abraham said: "Peace be on thee: I will pray to my Lord for thy forgiveness: for He is to me Most Gracious.
Do not revile those [beings] whom they invoke instead of God, lest they, in their hostility, revile God out of ignorance. Thus to every people We have caused their actions to seem fair. To their Lord they shall all return, and He will declare to them all that they have done.
Soon shall We show them Our Signs on the horizons and in their own beings until it becomes clear to them that it is the Truth. Is it not enough that your Lord is a witness over everything?
But the hoopoe stayed not long and said, "I have encompassed [in knowledge] that which you have not encompassed, and I have come to you from Sheba with certain news.
(He said:) 'Joseph, the truthful, tell us of the seven fatted cows that were devoured by seven lean ones also of the seven green ears of corn and the other seven which were withered, so that I can go back to the people and then they will then know'
He has counted them and numbered them precisely,
Fight those who neither believe in Allah nor the Last Day, who do not forbid what Allah and His Messenger have forbidden, and do not embrace the religion of the truth, being among those who have been given the Book (Bible and the Torah), until they pay tribute out of hand and have been humiliated.
Say, "Whoever is an enemy to Gabriel - it is [none but] he who has brought the Qur'an down upon your heart, [O Muhammad], by permission of Allah, confirming that which was before it and as guidance and good tidings for the believers."
When they entered upon David, so he feared them – they said, “Do not fear! We are two disputants, one of whom has wronged the other, therefore judge fairly between us and do not judge unjustly – and show us the right way.”
Will you not fight against those who have broken their oaths and conspired to banish the Messenger? They were the first to attack you. Do you fear them? Surely God is more deserving of your fear, if you are true believers.
[Pharaoh] said, "Then what is the case of the former generations?"
And with them shall be those who restrain the eyes, having beautiful eyes;
So they disputed their matter among themselves, and kept their confidential talks secret.
O mankind! Verily, there has come to you a convincing proof (Prophet Muhammad SAW) from your Lord, and We sent down to you a manifest light (this Quran).
We will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve for what they have associated with Allah of which He had not sent down [any] authority. And their refuge will be the Fire, and wretched is the residence of the wrongdoers.
And for the sake of your Lord, patiently endure.
The Egyptian who bought him said to his wife, "Be kind to him, perhaps he will be of some benefit to us or we may adopt him." Thus, We settled Joseph in the land so that We could teach him the interpretation of dreams. God has full control over His affairs but most people do not know.
O you who believe! If a rebellious evil person comes to you with a news, verify it, lest you harm people in ignorance, and afterwards you become regretful to what you have done.
Again (self-)destroyed is he, how he planned! -
No indeed; but upon that day they shall be veiled from their Lord,
But if they repent and keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate, they are your brethren in faith; and We make the communications clear for a people who know.
And to Thamood their brother Salih; he said, 'O my people, serve God! You have no god other than He; there has now come to you a clear sign from your Lord -- this is the She-camel of God, to be a sign for you. Leave her that she may eat in God's earth, and do not touch her with evil, lest you be seized by a painful chastisement.
If you want to divorce a woman so that you can marry another, do not take back the dowry which you had paid even if what you paid was a large amount of gold. To do this is a slanderous act and a manifest sin.
Will you allow me to present this spirit through your art?
Believe in My revelations (Quran) that confirms what I revealed to you (about Prophet Muhammad in your Scripture). Do not be the first ones to deny it nor sell My revelations for a small price, but have fear of Me.
Surely (as for) those who disbelieve, and hinder (men) from Allah's way and from the Sacred Mosque which We have made equally for all men, (for) the dweller therein and (for) the visitor, and whoever shall incline therein to wrong unjustly, We will make him taste of a painful chastisement.
And the salt process is what we take out of salt.
He said: O son of my mother! seize me not by my beard nor by my head; surely I was afraid lest you should say: You have caused a division among the children of Israel and not waited for my word.
"Thus will thy Lord choose thee and teach thee the interpretation of stories (and events) and perfect His favour to thee and to the posterity of Jacob - even as He perfected it to thy fathers Abraham and Isaac aforetime! for Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom."
But when the deafening cry comes,
And why did you not, when you heard it, say: It does not beseem us that we should talk of it; glory be to Thee! this is a great calumny?
How then if We brought from each people a witness, and We brought thee as a witness against these people!
He was one of Our believing servants.
(Allah) said: "O Iblis! What prevents thee from prostrating thyself to one whom I have created with my hands? Art thou haughty? Or art thou one of the high (and mighty) ones?"
And if two parties of believers fall to fighting, then make peace between them. And if one party of them doeth wrong to the other, fight ye that which doeth wrong till it return unto the ordinance of Allah; then, if it return, make peace between them justly, and act equitably. Lo! Allah loveth the equitable.
Indeed those who took up the calf [for worship] shall be overtaken by their Lord’s wrath and abasement in the life of the world.’ Thus do We requite the fabricators [of lies].
You used to wish for death before you have faced it. Now you have seen it before your own eyes.
Satan makes them promises, and creates in them false desires; but satan's promises are nothing but deception.
But those who disbelieve (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism), for them is destruction, and (Allah) will make their deeds vain.
With your Lord alone will be the retreat on that day.
And the dwellers of Madyan (Midian); and belied was belied. I granted respite to the disbelievers for a while, then I seized them, and how (terrible) was My Punishment (against their wrong-doing).
There the believers were tried and they were shaken with severe shaking.
When I was 13 years old, I was asked to tell me the story of Meliston.
And leave the Hereafter.
Let not the Unbelievers think that our respite to them is good for themselves: We grant them respite that they may grow in their iniquity: But they will have a shameful punishment.
Who will cause me to die and then will again restore me to life;
'These' they said, 'are a small band,
They think the companies have not [yet] withdrawn. And if the companies should come [again], they would wish they were in the desert among the bedouins, inquiring [from afar] about your news. And if they should be among you, they would not fight except for a little.
Allah only forbids you respecting those who made war upon you on account of (your) religion, and drove you forth from your homes and backed up (others) in your expulsion, that you make friends with them, and whoever makes friends with them, these are the unjust.
And Hell-Fire shall be placed in full view for (all) to see,-
O you who believe! When you marry believing women, but then divorce them before you have touched them, there is no waiting period for you to observe in respect to them; but compensate them, and release them in a graceful manner.
Thamood and Aad belied the Clatterer.
Is it their intellect which prompts them to [say] this, or are they a rebellious lot?
By the heavens and that which comes in the night --
Say, "O Allah, Owner of Sovereignty, You give sovereignty to whom You will and You take sovereignty away from whom You will. You honor whom You will and You humble whom You will. In Your hand is [all] good. Indeed, You are over all things competent.
Bring back to us our fathers if you are truthful.”
A revelation from the Lord of the Worlds.
then We developed that drop into a clinging form, and We developed that form into a lump of flesh, and We developed that lump into bones, and clothed the bones with flesh. Then We brought him into being as a new creation, glory be to God, the best of creators,
Of camels a pair, and oxen a pair; say, hath He forbidden the two males, or the two females, or (the young) which the wombs of the two females enclose? - Were ye present when Allah ordered you such a thing? But who doth more wrong than one who invents a lie against Allah, to lead astray men without knowledge? For Allah guideth not people who do wrong.
His soul made it seem fair to him to slay his brother; he killed him and became one of the lost.
Even as We have sent among you an Apostle from among you who recites to you Our communications and purifies you and teaches you the Book and the wisdom and teaches you that which you did not know.
And therein they shall be given to drink a cup whose mixture is ginger,
Moses said unto him: May I follow thee, to the end that thou mayst teach me right conduct of that which thou hast been taught?
The believers are those who believe in God and His Messenger, then have not doubted, and have struggled with their possessions and their selves in the way of God; those -- they are the truthful ones.
Go back to your father and say: O our father! surely your son committed theft, and we do not bear witness except to what we have known, and we could not keep watch over the unseen:
They said: O Musa! will you cast, or shall we be the first who cast down?
Obey God and His Messenger. Do not quarrel with each other lest you fail or lose honor. Exercise patience; God is with those who have patience.
When he came to it, he was called from the right bank in the blessed plot of the tree (he heard speech without letter or voice coming from all directions):'Moses, I am Allah, Lord of the Worlds.
What is the matter with you? How do you judge?
When your Lord brought forth offspring from the loins of the Children of Adam and made them bear witness about themselves, He said, "Am I not your Lord?" They replied, "We bear witness that You are." This He did, lest you should say on the Day of Resurrection, "We had no knowledge of that."
He said: "My Lord! For that with which You have favoured me, I will never more be a helper for the Mujrimun (criminals, disobedient to Allah, polytheists, sinners, etc.)!"
Allah said: "I will send it down unto you: But if any of you after that resisteth faith, I will punish him with a penalty such as I have not inflicted on any one among all the peoples."
They will recline (with ease) on Thrones (of dignity) arranged in ranks; and We shall join them to Companions, with beautiful big and lustrous eyes.
by those that outstrip them suddenly,
Verily We! We shall inherit the earth and whatsoever is thereon: and Unto Us they shall be returned.
He said: Seest Thou this (creature) whom Thou hast honoured above me, if Thou give me grace until the Day of Resurrection I verily will seize his seed, save but a few.
And every nation hath its term, and when its term cometh, they cannot put it off an hour nor yet advance (it).
yet it is a certain truth.
They said: Be not afraid, surely we give you the good news of a boy, possessing knowledge.
As for those who do not believe in the Hereafter: We made their deeds appear good to them, so they wander aimlessly.
Believers, be the supporters of justice and the testify to what you may have witnessed, for the sake of God, even against yourselves, parents, and relatives; whether it be against the rich or the poor. God must be given preference over them. Let not your desires cause you to commit injustice. If you deviate from the truth in your testimony, or decline to give your testimony at all, know that God is Well Aware of what you do.
We have appointed for every nation a holy rite that they shall perform. Let them not therefore wrangle with thee upon the matter, and do thou summon unto thy Lord; surely thou art upon a straight guidance.
And recite to them, [O Muhammad], the news of him to whom we gave [knowledge of] Our signs, but he detached himself from them; so Satan pursued him, and he became of the deviators.
Believers, have fear of God and give up whatever unlawful interest you still demand from others, if you are indeed true believers.
So We answered him, lifted his suffering, and restored his family to him, and their like with them—a mercy from Us, and a reminder for the worshipers.
Then, surely, it is for Us to call them to account.
You will not attain virtuous conduct until you give of what you cherish. Whatever you give away, God is aware of it.
We did not send [any apostles] before you except as men to whom We revealed. Ask the People of the Reminder if you do not know.
for what sin she was killed,
All we can say is that some of our gods have smitten you with evil." He replied:" I call God to witness, and you be witness too, that I am clear of what you associate (in your affairs)
He asks, “When will be the Day of Resurrection?”
And We sent Lut – when he said to his people, “What! You commit the shameful acts which no one in the creation has ever done before you?”
and clearly tell the unbelievers: "I am most certainly a plain warner,"
Have they not travelled in the land to see the nature of the consequence for those who disbelieved before them? They were mightier than these in power and (in the) traces (which they left behind them) in the earth. Yet Allah seized them for their sins, and they had no protector from Allah.
Say thou: it hath been revealed Unto me that a company of the Jinn listened, and said, verily we have listened to a Recitation wondrous.
That He may forgive some of your sins and prolong your term till an appointed time. Surely when God's appointed time is come it will not be put off, if only you knew!
Except those who repent and believe (in Islamic Monotheism), and do righteous deeds, for those, Allah will change their sins into good deeds, and Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
So fear Allah and obey me.
So glorify the name of your Lord, the Supreme.
O Yahya! take hold of the Book with strength, and We granted him wisdom while yet a child
Except those who believe (in Islamic Monotheism) and do righteous good deeds, and recommend one another to the truth (i.e. order one another to perform all kinds of good deeds (Al-Ma'ruf) which Allah has ordained, and abstain from all kinds of sins and evil deeds (Al-Munkar) which Allah has forbidden), and recommend one another to patience (for the sufferings, harms, and injuries which one may encounter in Allah's Cause during preaching His religion of Islamic peace).
Allah! There is no Allah save Him. In Allah, therefore, let believers put their trust.
Indeed We sent Our Messengers with Clear Signs, and sent down with them the Book and the Balance that people may uphold justice. And We sent down iron, wherein there is awesome power and many benefits for people, so that Allah may know who, without even having seen Him, helps Him and His Messengers. Surely Allah is Most Strong, Most Mighty.
Yet I claim not that my soul was innocent -- surely the soul of man incites to evil -- except inasmuch as my Lord had mercy; truly my Lord is All-forgiving, All-compassionate.'
But whoever comes to Him a believer, having worked righteousness—these will have the highest ranks.
Slay them wherever you may catch them and expel them from the place from which they expelled you. The sin of disbelief in God is greater than committing murder. Do not fight them in the vicinity of the Sacred Mosque in Mecca unless they start to fight. Then slay them for it is the recompense that the disbelievers deserve.
And among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the living creatures that He has scattered through them: and He has power to gather them together when He wills.
Then those striking sparks of fire,
On the Day the punishment envelops them from above them and from underneath their feet, they will be told, "Taste [the punishment] for what you used to do!"
And his people argued with him. He said, "Do you argue with me concerning Allah while He has guided me? And I fear not what you associate with Him [and will not be harmed] unless my Lord should will something. My Lord encompasses all things in knowledge; then will you not remember?
And you will see the criminals that Day bound together in shackles,
And they say: Why are not signs sent down upon him from his Lord? Say: The signs are only with Allah, and I am only a plain warner.
Our Lord! and raise up in them an Apostle from among them who shall recite to them Thy communications and teach them the Book and the wisdom, and purify them; surely Thou art the Mighty, the Wise.
If Allah brings you back to a party of them (the hypocrites), and they ask your permission to go out (to fight), say: "Never shall you go out with me, nor fight an enemy with me; you agreed to sit inactive on the first occasion, then you sit (now) with those who lag behind."
This is naught else than a reminder unto creation,
But for their violation of their covenant, and their denial of God’s revelations, and their killing of the prophets unjustly, and their saying, “Our minds are closed.” In fact, God has sealed them for their disbelief, so they do not believe, except for a few.
And those who disbelieve say, "This [Qur'an] is not except a falsehood he invented, and another people assisted him in it." But they have committed an injustice and a lie.
and when the Messengers' time is set,
Or have they a stairway (to heaven), by means of which they listen (to the talks of the angels)? Then let their listener produce some manifest proof.
Know that the Messenger of God is with you. Had he yielded to you on many of the matters, you would have been in great trouble. But God has endeared the faith to you and has made it attractive to your hearts. He has made disbelief, evil deeds and disobedience hateful to you. Such people will have the right guidance
I will turn away from My signs all those who are arrogant in the land without any right, so that even if they see all the signs they will not believe in them. If they see the right path, they shall not walk upon it: but if they see the path of error, they shall choose it for their path, because they have given the lie to Our signs and paid no heed to them.
The most moderate of them said: said I not Unto you, wherefore hallow him ye not!
And it is He Who has let free the two seas (kinds of water), one palatable and sweet, and the other salt and bitter, and He has set a barrier and a complete partition between them.
They are the people who purchased error in exchange of guidance, and torment in exchange of pardon; so how much can they bear the fire?
And if any of your wives have gone from you unto the disbelievers and afterward ye have your turn (of triumph), then give unto those whose wives have gone the like of that which they have spent, and keep your duty to Allah in Whom ye are believers.
But Allah hath full knowledge of your enemies: Allah is enough for a protector, and Allah is enough for a Helper.
Then verily ye, O ye erring, denying people.
and by the Scripture penned
And do not consume one another’s wealth by unjust means, nor offer it as bribes to the officials in order to consume part of other people’s wealth illicitly, while you know.
"O offspring of those whom We carried (in the ship) with Nuh (Noah)! Verily, he was a grateful slave."
Indeed in the creation of the heavens and the earth and the alternation of night and day, there are signs for those who possess intellect.
Gardens of Eden they shall enter; therein they shall be adorned with bracelets of gold and with pearls, and their apparel there shall be of silk.
And what can make you know what is the Night of Decree?
From a drop of liquid, when it is added?
So that they become a scattered dust,
I saw it myself.
Who hath created seven heavens in harmony. Thou (Muhammad) canst see no fault in the Beneficent One's creation; then look again: Canst thou see any rifts?
And when Abraham said to his father and his people, 'Surely I am quit of that you serve,
But (now), when the Truth has come to them from Ourselves, they say, "Why are not (Signs) sent to him, like those which were sent to Moses?" Do they not then reject (the Signs) which were formerly sent to Moses? They say: "Two kinds of sorcery, each assisting the other!" And they say: "For us, we reject all (such things)!"
And the people of the Heights will cry out to the men whom they would recognize by their marks. saving: 'Neither your numbers nor the riches of which you were proud availed you.
Thus thy Lord will prefer thee and will teach thee the interpretation of events, and will perfect His grace upon thee and upon the family of Jacob as He perfected it upon thy forefathers, Abraham and Isaac. Lo! thy Lord is Knower, Wise.
Which will neither nourish nor avail against hunger.
O mankind! Eat of that which is lawful and wholesome in the earth, and follow not the footsteps of the devil. Lo! he is an open enemy for you.
And they say, "When is this promise, if you should be truthful?"
Those who put away their wives by equating them with their mothers, and then wish to go back on what they have said, must set free a slave before the couple may touch one another again. This is what you are exhorted to do. God is fully aware of what you do,
Then We sent Musa and his brother Haroun, with Our communications and a clear authority,
that We may bring forth with it grain, plants
You know and have known already those among you who had broken the sanctity of the Sabbath, and to whom We had said: "Become (like) apes despised,"
Those who called Shu'aib a liar were as though they had never dwelt therein; those who called Shu'aib a liar, they were the losers.
Or have you received from Us an agreement confirmed by an oath extending to the day of resurrection that you shall surely have what you demand?
The day We shall gather them all together We shall say to the idolaters: "Take your stand with the compeers you worshipped as the equals of God." We shall then create a rift between them, and the compeers will say: "You did not worship us;
Nay, by the moon,
Or have they partners (of Allah) who have made lawful for them in religion that which Allah allowed not? And but for a decisive word (gone forth already), it would have been judged between them. Lo! for wrong-doers is a painful doom.
And when they commit an indecency, they say: we found our fathers thereon, and God hath enjoined it on us. Say thou. verily Allah enjoineth not an indecency; say ye falsely of Allah that which ye know not?
They will say while they dispute therein,
Then there are others who have set up a mosque to hurt the True Faith, to promote unbelief, and cause division among believers, and as an ambush for one who had earlier made war on Allah and His Messenger. They will surely swear: "We intended nothing but good," whereas Allah bears witness that they are liars.
Guide us to the straight path -
Or do you feel secure that He will not send you back a second time to sea and send against you a hurricane of wind and drown you because of your disbelief, then you will not find any avenger therein against Us?
When she came to Solomon, she was asked, "Is your throne like this?" She replied, "It looks as though it were the same, and we had been given knowledge [of your power] before this, and we have already submitted."
How regretful for the servants. There did not come to them any messenger except that they used to ridicule him.
And He has set up on the earth mountains standing firm, lest it should shake with you; and rivers and roads; that ye may guide yourselves;
That is for what your hands have put forth and because Allah is not ever unjust to [His] servants."
Therein are fruits and palm trees with sheaths,
Surely in that is a sign, yet most of them are not believers.
And were it not for Allah’s munificence and His mercy upon you and that Allah is the Acceptor of Repentance, the Wise – He would then have unveiled you.
And to Midian [We sent] Shu‘ayb, their brother. He said, ‘O my people! Worship Allah. You have no other god besides Him. Do not diminish the measure or the balance. Indeed I see that you are faring well, but I fear for you the punishment of an all-embracing day.’
Deemed ye then that We had created you for naught, and that ye would not be returned unto Us?
Holy is He Who created all things in pairs, whether it be of what the earth produces, and of themselves, and of what they do not know.
And those who believe in the signs of their Lord –
He cannot be questioned as to what He does, while they will be questioned.
Remember when Abraham said to Azar, his father: "Why do you take idols for God? I certainly find you and your people in error."
And say (unto them): Act! Allah will behold your actions, and (so will) His messenger and the believers, and ye will be brought back to the Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, and He will tell you what ye used to do.
Allah has made the earth a wide expanse for you
He is Allah, the Creator, the Maker, the Fashioner; His are the excellent names. Him halloweth whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
So by the Lord of heaven and earth, it is as surely true as that you have speech.
And Allah has brought you forth from the wombs of your mothers-- you did not know anything-- and He gave you hearing and sight and hearts that you may give thanks.
He said, ‘My Lord! Judge [between us and the polytheists] with justice.’ ‘Our Lord is the All-beneficent; [He is our] resort against what you allege.’
So if you have a plot, use it against Me (Allah)!
But they verily will bear their own loads and other loads beside their own, and they verily will be questioned on the Day of Resurrection concerning that which they invented.
It neither leaves, nor spares.
Before this We gave Abraham his virtue, for We knew him.
And fear a Day when no soul will suffice for another soul at all, nor will intercession be accepted from it, nor will compensation be taken from it, nor will they be aided.
Say: 'Call upon Allah, or call upon the Merciful; whichever (Name) you call upon, to Him belong the Most Beautiful Names' Pray neither loudly nor to quietly, rather, seek a middle course between them.
Fir'awn said: verily your apostle who hath been sent unto you is mad.
Used to determine whether settings should be migrated to a new version.
Then (a voice) called to her from below: "Grieve not; your Lord has made a rivulet gush forth right below you.
When he came near the fire he was called, "Moses,
But they called him a liar, therefore they shall most surely be brought up.
As for the good land, vegetation comes forth in abundance by the command of its Lord, whereas from the bad land, only poor vegetation comes forth. Thus do We expound Our signs in diverse ways for a people who are grateful.
And on the day when those who disbelieve are exposed to the Fire (it will be said): Ye squandered your good things in the life of the world and sought comfort therein. Now this day ye are rewarded with the doom of ignominy because ye were disdainful in the land without a right, and because ye used to transgress.
It is a written record.
On that Day We shall assemble together a host from every community of those who cried lies to Our revelations and they will be grouped
And indeed We have created man and We know what his soul instils in him; and We are nearer to him than the hearts artery.
Lo! is it not unto Allah that belongeth whosoever is in the heavens and whosoever is in the earth? Those who follow aught instead of Allah follow not (His) partners. They follow only a conjecture, and they do but guess.
(It is) the day on which they shall be tried at the fire.
And of the night--keep the vigil therein, as an act of supererogation for thee; belike thy Lord will raise thee up in a station praised.
On the Day when He gathers them all together, He will say to the angels: 'Was it you that these worshipped'
Or add to it, and recite the Quran as it ought to be recited.
So God seized him with an exemplary punishment, in the last and in the first.
The All Knowing of all things hidden and visible, the Great, the Supreme.
Ye are never able to be fair and just as between women, even if it is your ardent desire: But turn not away (from a woman) altogether, so as to leave her (as it were) hanging (in the air). If ye come to a friendly understanding, and practise self-restraint, Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
(It was said to him): "Ah now!- But a little while before, wast thou in rebellion!- and thou didst mischief (and violence)!
He will admit them into the Paradise which He has made known to them.
Remember when you said, "Moses, we will not believe in you until we see God with our own eyes," a thunderbolt struck you while you were looking on.
What! Of all creatures do ye come unto the males,
To Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and the earth. Allah encompasses everything.
They will say: "Our Lord! twice hast Thou made us without life, and twice hast Thou given us Life! Now have we recognised our sins: Is there any way out (of this)?"
So remain, (O Muhammad), you and those who have returned with you (to the fold of faith and obedience from unbelief and rebellion) steadfast (in adhering to the straight way) as you were commanded. And do not exceed the limits of (service to Allah). For certainly He is aware of all what you do.
shall have an easy reckoning
And lost from them will be those they were invoking before, and they will be certain that they have no place of escape.
They said, "O 'Azeez, indeed he has a father [who is] an old man, so take one of us in place of him. Indeed, we see you as a doer of good."
so that toward it may incline the hearts of those who do not believe in the Hereafter, and so that they may be pleased with it and commit what they commit.
We have indeed revealed to you as We revealed to Noah and the prophets after him, and [as] We revealed to Abraham and Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, Jesus and Job, Jonah, Aaron, and Solomon—and We gave David the Psalms—
Or, do the people of those towns feel secure that Our punishment will not come to them by daylight while they are at play?
Man is hasty by nature. I shall certainly show you My Signs. Do not ask Me to be hasty.
This it is that ye are promised for the Day of Reckoning.
Therefore do thou give admonition, for thou art one to admonish.
It scorches people's skin
Allah has destroyed the deeds of those who disbelieved and prevented from Allah’s way.
Take this letter of mine and deliver it to them. Then leave them and see what [answer] they will return."
And also in your ownselves. Will you not then see?
But never did a prophet come at whom they did not scoff.
So Pharaoh withdrew: He concerted his plan, and then came (back).
No indeed! We will write what he says, and will keep extending the agony for him.
'Our Lord' supplicated Moses. 'You have given Pharaoh and his Council adornments and possessions in this life. Our Lord, let them go astray from Your Path. Our Lord, destroy their possessions and harden their hearts so that they shall not believe until they see the painful punishment.
And when Our Clear Verses are recited to them, their argument is no other than that they say: "Bring back our (dead) fathers, if you are truthful!"
Only those believe in Our signs who, when they are reminded of them, fall down in prostration and proclaim the Purity of their Lord while praising Him, and are not conceited. (Command of prostration # 9).
They said: If he stealeth, a brother of his stole before. But Joseph kept it secret in his soul and revealed it not unto them. He said (within himself): Ye are in worse case, and Allah knoweth best (the truth of) that which ye allege.
Only he shall inhabit God's places of worship who believes in God and the Last Day, and performs the prayer, and pays the alms, and fears none but God alone; it may be that those will be among the guided.
upon that day unto thy Lord shall be the driving.
his kin, which had sheltered him
Not equal are the inmates of the Fire and the inhabitants of paradise. It is the inhabitants of paradise who are the successful ones.
Seek help with patience and prayer; this is indeed an exacting discipline, but not to the humble,
We would have seized him by the right hand,
But when the sight is dazed
Have you not seen those who changed the Word of God through disbelief and led their people to destruction?
Seest thou one who forbids-
Then after that there will come a year wherein the people will be granted relief and provided with rains therein.
There is not an animal in the earth, nor a flying creature flying on two wings, but they are peoples like unto you. We have neglected nothing in the Book (of Our decrees). Then unto their Lord they will be gathered.
They say: 'Had it been the will of the Merciful, we would never have worshipped them' Of this they have no knowledge, they are but guessing.
Has he made the gods [only] one God? Indeed, this is a curious thing."
Remember when Moses said to his people: "O my people, remember the favours that God bestowed on you when He appointed apostles from among you, and made you kings and gave you what had never been given to any one in the world.
Hell is before him and he shall be made to drink of the oozing pus,
When the heaven is cleft asunder.
We sent Moses with Our signs and with clear authority
And his wife, the wood-carrier,
The woman and the man guilty of adultery or fornication,- flog each of them with a hundred stripes: Let not compassion move you in their case, in a matter prescribed by Allah, if ye believe in Allah and the Last Day: and let a party of the Believers witness their punishment.
To Him belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth, and whatever is between them, and whatever is under the ground.
By your Lord, We will question them all
So We subjected to him the wind, that ran at his commandment, softly, wherever he might light on,
They say: 'Allah has taken a son' Exaltations be to Him (Allah)! Rich is He. To Him belongs all that is in the heavens and the earth you have no authority for this! What, do you say of Allah what you do not know?
But there came after them successors who neglected prayer and pursued desires; so they are going to meet evil -
Fir'awn said: verily your apostle who hath been sent unto you is mad.
And you devour inheritance all with greed,
And I do not think the Hour will occur. And even if I should be brought back to my Lord, I will surely find better than this as a return."
But they hamstrung her; and on the morrow were repentant,
Say: "I urge upon you only one thing: Stand up for God two by two or one by one, and think and reflect!" There is no madness about your companion. He is a warner against the dreadful affliction (that awaits).
Who used to say, “Are you of those who believe?
filling your bellies with it;
Surely the pious shall drink of a cup whose mixture is camphor,
And his companion (angel) will say: "Here is (this Record) ready with me!"
Truly, those who believe (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism, and in His Messenger Muhammad SAW) and do righteous deeds, for them will be an endless reward that will never stop (i.e. Paradise).
I have chosen you. Therefore, listen to what shall be revealed.
Hast thou not regarded thy Lord, how He has stretched out the shadow? Had He willed, He would have made it still. Then We appointed the sun, to be a guide to it;
This surely is a revelation from the Lord of the Universe:
He said: Go down hence, both of you, one of you a foe unto the other. But when there come unto you from Me a guidance, then whoso followeth My guidance, he will not go astray nor come to grief.
Guide us to the straight path -
We send down in the Quran that which is a cure and mercy for the faithful; and it increases the wrongdoers only in loss.
But as for those in whose hearts is disease, it has [only] increased them in evil [in addition] to their evil. And they will have died while they are disbelievers.
[It is] a Day when mankind shall be like scattered moths
All praise be to Allah Who, despite my old age, has given me Ishmael and Isaac. Surely my Lord hears all prayers.
Leave them to eat and enjoy, and let them be preoccupied with (false) hope. They will come to know!
Do they not know that it is Allah who accepts repentance from His servants and receives charities and that it is Allah who is the Accepting of repentance, the Merciful?
and he who fears shall remember,
Taking that which their Lord giveth them; for lo! aforetime they were doers of good;
So they set out. Until, when they reached the people of a town, they asked them for food, but they refused to offer them hospitality. There they found a wall about to collapse, and he repaired it. He said, “If you wanted, you could have obtained a payment for it.”
And those who of their trusts and their covenant are keepers.
Those that were before them also cried lies; then how was My horror!
Read: In the Name of your Lord who created.
Today none of you has the power to benefit or harm another; and We shall say to the evil-doers: “Taste now the chastisement of the Fire which you used to deny, calling it a lie.”
They will say: "Our Lord! twice hast Thou made us without life, and twice hast Thou given us Life! Now have we recognised our sins: Is there any way out (of this)?"
So Salih left them, saying: "O my people! I did indeed convey to you the message for which I was sent by my Lord: I gave you good counsel, but ye love not good counsellors!"
Certainly We have made the Quran simple for the sake of admonishment. So is there anyone who will be admonished?
He hides himself from the people because of the evil of that whereof he has been informed. Shall he keep her with dishonour or bury her in the earth? Certainly, evil is their decision.
Nay! you rather thought that the Apostle and the believers would not return to their families ever, and that was made fairseeming to your hearts and you thought an evil thought and you were a people doomed to perish.
Could not perform the operation
Every soul will be recompensed fully for what it has done, and He is best aware of what they do.
And your garments purify!
Fight them, Allah will punish them by your hands and bring them to disgrace, and assist you against them and heal the hearts of a believing people.
We have sent down Revelations that make the reality quite plain; however, Allah guides to the straight path whomsoever He pleases.
And from the evil of the utterly dark night when it comes,
That they may bear their burdens entirely on the day of resurrection and also of the burdens of those whom they lead astray without knowledge; now surely evil is what they bear.
we had no authority over you; no, you were an insolent people.
As for the thief, whether man or woman, cut his hand as punishment from God for what he had done; and God is all mighty and all wise.
And never came there unto them a messenger but they did mock him.
No help can they give them, nor can they help themselves.
Not equal are the blind and those who (clearly) see: Nor are (equal) those who believe and work deeds of righteousness, and those who do evil. Little do ye learn by admonition!
The people of Nuh and the parties after them rejected (prophets) before them, and every nation purposed against their apostle to destroy him, and they disputed by means of the falsehood that they might thereby render null the truth, therefore I destroyed them; how was then My retribution!
The Forgiver of sin, the Acceptor of repentance, the Severe in punishment, the Bestower (of favours), La ilaha illa Huwa (none has the right to be worshipped but He), to Him is the final return.
O mankind! Fear your Lord Who created you from a single soul and from it created its spouse and from them both has spread the multitude of men and women; fear Allah in Whose name you claim (your rights from one another) and be mindful of your blood relations; indeed Allah is always seeing you.
In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful.
And had We not given thee strength, thou wouldst nearly have inclined to them a little.
Have you thought about the fire you kindle?
It is He who stretched out the earth and set therein firm mountains and rivers, and of every fruit He placed there two kinds, covering the day with the night. Surely in that are signs for a people who reflect.
Because elections failed to give peace and security and protection in the elections
and enter My Paradise.”
And as for those who transgress their abode is the Fire. So oft as they desire to get thereout, they shall be sent back thereto; and it will be said unto them: taste the torment of the Fire which ye were wont to belie.
O my two fellow-prisoners! Are many diverse lords better, or God, the One, the Almighty?
O ye who believe! Spend out of (the bounties) We have provided for you, before the Day comes when no bargaining (Will avail), nor friendship nor intercession. Those who reject Faith they are the wrong-doers.
Let not their conduct grieve thee, who run easily to disbelief, for lo! they injure Allah not at all. It is Allah's Will to assign them no portion in the Hereafter, and theirs will be an awful doom.
whom the angels take while still they are wronging themselves.' Then they will offer surrender: 'We were doing nothing evil. 'Nay; but surety God has knowledge of the things you did.
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
where they shall remain for ages,
Does he promise you that when you have died and become dust and bones that you will be brought forth [once more]?
Abiding there for ever. Happy is it as abode and station!
Say: 'Obey Allah and obey the Messenger. If you turn away, upon him only rests what is laid upon him, and upon you rests what is laid on you. If you obey him, you shall be guided. It is only for the Messenger to deliver a clear message'
And for their covenant we raised over them (the towering height) of Mount (Sinai); and (on another occasion) we said: "Enter the gate with humility"; and (once again) we commanded them: "Transgress not in the matter of the sabbath." And we took from them a solemn covenant.
No, it is Him [alone] you would invoke, and He would remove that for which you invoked Him if He willed, and you would forget what you associate [with Him].
And most surely it is a guidance and a mercy for the believers.
Allah! There is no Allah save Him. He gathereth you all unto a Day of Resurrection whereof there is no doubt. Who is more true in statement than Allah?
Verily I was sure that I should be a meeter of my reckoning.
We have revealed the Qur'an in parts that you may recite it to people slowly and with deliberation; and (for that reason) We have revealed it gradually (to suit particular occasions).
He said: "O my people! Tell me, if I have a clear proof from my Lord, and there has come to me a Mercy (Prophethood, etc.) from Him, who then can help me against Allah, if I were to disobey Him? Then you increase me not but in loss.
Thus indeed do We reward those who do right.
He has turned with mercy to the three whose case was deferred, when the earth, for all its spaciousness, closed in upon them, and their own souls seemed straitened to them and they realised that there was no refuge from God except in Him. He turned to them so that they might turn to Him. God is the Ever Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
from a drop of [seminal] fluid when emitted;
by the Ten (secret) Nights,
They say: 'We will not believe in you until you make a spring gush from the earth for us,
They had sought to do him harm, but We frustrated them.
Over it are nineteen (angels guarding).
Saying: Give up to me the slaves of Allah. Lo! I am a faithful messenger unto you.
Say, "Indeed, my Lord extends provision for whom He wills of His servants and restricts [it] for him. But whatever thing you spend [in His cause] - He will compensate it; and He is the best of providers."
When two parties from among you had determined that they should show cowardice, and Allah was the guardian of them both, and in Allah should the believers trust.
Until when [the dam of] Gog and Magog has been opened and they, from every elevation, descend
So they returned with a mighty favour and a great bounty from Allah having suffered no harm. They followed the good pleasure of Allah, and Allah is the Lord of great bounty.
Those who believe fight in the cause of Allah, and those who disbelieve fight in the cause of Taghut. So fight against the allies of Satan. Indeed, the plot of Satan has ever been weak.
They also say among themselves: 'Do not follow anyone except him who follows your faith.' Say: 'Surely true guidance is Allah's. It is His favour that anyone should be given the like of what you have been given in the past, and that others should have been given firm evidence to proffer against you before your Lord.' Say: 'Surely bounty is in the Hand of Allah; He gives it to whom He wills. Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.
So glorify Allah [above all that (evil) they associate with Him (O believers)], when you come up to the evening [i.e. offer the (Fajr) sunset and ('Isha') night prayers], and when you enter the morning [i.e. offer the (Fajr) morning prayer].
And on the earth there are many tracts of land neighbouring each other. There are on it vineyards, and sown fields, and date palms: some growing in clusters from one root, some standing alone. They are irrigated by the same water, and yet We make some excel others in taste. Surely there are signs in these for a people who use their reason.
Those who disbelieve say, “This is nothing but a lie that he made up, and others have helped him at it.” They have committed an injustice and a perjury.
It tells a story about how today will be a historical day like 100 years ago.
(It will be said of such sinners), "Seize them and drag them into the middle of hell.
Indeed lost are they who have killed their children, from folly, without knowledge, and have forbidden that which Allah has provided for them, inventing a lie against Allah. They have indeed gone astray and were not guided.
Whosoever desires honour (should remember) that all honour is with God. All good words ascend to Him, and all good deeds He exalts. As for those who are plotting evil, there is severe punishment for them, and their plots will be fruitless.
And We admitted him into Our mercy; indeed he is among those who deserve Our proximity.
We sent down water from the sky in due measure and lodged it in the earth, but if We please, We have the power to take it away,
So, we have many companies working on it, hundreds.
Everyone says, I've done it about basic problems.
Allah desires that He should make light your burdens, and man is created weak.
That He did create in pairs,- male and female,
I have chosen you; so listen to what is revealed.
Or thou have a house of gold; or thou ascend up into heaven, and even then we will put no faith in thine ascension till thou bring down for us a book that we can read. Say (O Muhammad): My Lord be Glorified! Am I aught save a mortal messenger?
And that Allah may help thee with strong help -
The polytheists will now say, “Had Allah willed, we would not have ascribed partners (to Him) nor would have our forefathers, nor would we have forbidden anything”; similarly those before them had denied, till the time they tasted Our punishment; say, “Do you have any knowledge so you can offer it to us? You follow only assumptions and only make guesses.”
And what will make you know what the striking (Hour) is?
And We created you in pairs,
Issuing from (the pelvis) between the backbone and the ribs.
Their apostles said to them, ‘Indeed we are just human beings like yourselves; but Allah favours whomever of His servants that He wishes. We may not bring you an authority except by Allah’s leave, and in Allah let all the faithful put their trust.
Not a [single] city which We destroyed believed before them, so will they believe?
And (remember) when you slew a man and were therefore accusing each other concerning it; and Allah wanted to expose what you were hiding.
We created the heavens, the earth, and everything between them in six days [periods] nor were We ever wearied.
So, as We recite it, follow its reading.
Give the relatives their [due] right, and the needy and the traveller [as well], but do not squander wastefully.
But those who committed misdeeds and then repented after them and believed - indeed your Lord, thereafter, is Forgiving and Merciful.
O men, it is you who stand in need of God. As for God, He is above all need, worthy of praise.
Say: 'O Allah, Owner of the Kingdom. You give the kingdom to whom You will, and take it away from whom You will, You exalt whom You will and abase whom You will. In Your Hand is good, You have power over all things.
Pharaoh pursued them with his hosts, but they were fully overwhelmed by the sea.
When they are told to spend for the cause of God out of what He has provided for them for their sustenance, the disbelievers say to the believers, "Should we feed those whom God has decided to feed? You are in plain error."
These are the ones from whom We accept righteous deeds and ignore their bad deeds. They will be among the dwellers of Paradise. It is the true promise which was given to them.
Indeed Ibrahim is most forbearing, very soft hearted, penitent.
Then depart from the place from where [all] the people depart and ask forgiveness of Allah. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
Verily We! We shall inherit the earth and whatsoever is thereon: and Unto Us they shall be returned.
And no question do they bring to thee but We reveal to thee the truth and the best explanation (thereof).
Put your hand inside your pocket, and it will come out white, without blemish. And press your arm to your side, against fear. These are two proofs from your Lord, to Pharaoh and his dignitaries. They are truly sinful people.”
Or do they say: "He (Muhammad SAW) has forged it (this Quran)?" Nay! They believe not!
“And what do I know – it may be a trial for you, and an enjoyment for a time.”
whom God has rejected. He said [to God], "I will assuredly take a number of Your servants,
And never did We destroy a township but there was a known decree for it.
We gave them Our revelations, but they turned away from them.
They said, "But we found our fathers doing thus."
Whatever Allah has taken away from them and bestowed (as spoils) on His Messenger for which you spurred neither horses nor camels; but Allah grants authority to His Messengers over whomsoever He pleases. Allah has power over everything.
Have no doubt that these people worship (idols). They worship what their fathers had worshipped before them. We will give them the exact recompense that they deserve.
Except for God’s sincere servants.
Say: "I know not whether the (Punishment) which ye are promised is near, or whether my Lord will appoint for it a distant term.
Surely what you have been promised shall come to pass; and you do not have the power to frustrate (Allah).
Theirs shall be everlasting Gardens which the Most Compassionate Lord has promised His servants in a realm which is beyond the ken of perception. Surely His promise shall he fulfilled.
It neither leaves, nor spares.
how the sun moves in its orbit and this is the decree of the Majestic and All-knowing God;
But We had not given them Books which they could study, nor sent messengers to them before thee as Warners.
So Pharaoh withdrew: He concerted his plan, and then came (back).
You shall see them exposed before it, humbled in shame and looking upon it with a furtive glance and the believers will say: 'Indeed, the losers are they who lose themselves and their families on the Day of Resurrection' The harmdoers shall suffer an everlasting punishment.
Which none toucheth save the purified,
And say to him, 'Would you [be willing to] purify yourself
The hypocrites seek to deceive Allah, but Allah is deceiving them. When they stand up to pray, they stand up lazily, showing off to the people and do not remember Allah, except a little,
Surely in this is a Message delivered unto a people who serve.
He said: Ye have chosen only idols instead of Allah. The love between you is only in the life of the world. Then on the Day of Resurrection ye will deny each other and curse each other, and your abode will be the Fire, and ye will have no helpers.
And cause the grain to grow therein
Rather prostrate yourselves before Allah and serve Him.
So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
O my son, establish prayer, enjoin what is right, forbid what is wrong, and be patient over what befalls you. Indeed, [all] that is of the matters [requiring] determination.
What could make you conceive what hell-fire is?
And We made the son of Mary and his mother a sign and sheltered them within a high ground having level [areas] and flowing water.
Surely in that is a sign, yet most of them are not believers.
To Allah belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth, that He may requite those who do evil for what they have done, and reward those who do good with the best [of rewards].
And it was said to the people: Will you gather together?
But Allah hath full knowledge of your enemies: Allah is enough for a protector, and Allah is enough for a Helper.
Whenever a chapter is sent down, there are some of them who say, "Which of you has had his faith increased by it?" But, as for those who believe, it increases their faith and they rejoice,
For children, it's more than 50 percent.
To the Madyan people We sent Shu'aib, one of their own brethren: he said: "O my people! worship Allah; Ye have no other god but Him. Now hath come unto you a clear (Sign) from your Lord! Give just measure and weight, nor withhold from the people the things that are their due; and do no mischief on the earth after it has been set in order: that will be best for you, if ye have Faith.
But Allah was not going to send them a penalty whilst thou wast amongst them; nor was He going to send it whilst they could ask for pardon.
I swear by the Day of Resurrection.
And by the Promised Day.
As for these: they love the fleeting life, and leave behind a Heavy Day.
When a Book came to them from God which confirms what is with them (the fact of truthfulness of the Prophet Muhammad in their Scripture), and, despite the fact that they had been praying for victory over the disbelievers (by the help of the truthful Prophet), they refuse to accept this book, even though they know it (to be the Truth). May God condemn those who hide the Truth!
They said, “Stop him and his brother, and send gatherers to the cities.”
and that you should serve Me? This is a straight path.
"And when I am ill, it is He Who cures me;
Has there not been over man a period of time, when he was nothing to be mentioned?
And he who brings the Truth and he who confirms (and supports) it - such are the men who do right.
Say: "With Allah is the argument that reaches home: if it had been His will, He could indeed have guided you all."
Again, no indeed; they shall soon know!
Our Lord! Whom Thou causest to enter the Fire: him indeed Thou hast confounded. For evil-doers there will be no helpers.
God explains the commandments to you. God is all knowing and wise.
But if they turn away, your only duty is clear communication.
He will say, “Alas – if only I had sent some good deeds ahead, during my lifetime!”
We showed the Pharaoh all of Our miracles, but he called them lies and turned away from them.
Then as for him whose measure of good deeds is heavy,
"Who feared (Allah) Most Gracious Unseen, and brought a heart turned in devotion (to Him):
but he denied it as false and disobeyed,
So whoever does righteous deeds while he is a believer - no denial will there be for his effort, and indeed We, of it, are recorders.
But whoever of you is obedient to God and His Apostle, and does the right, will be given a two-fold reward by Us; and We have a rich provision in readiness for her.
For divorced women a provision according to what is fair shall also be made. This is an obligation binding on the righteous.
and the wicked shall be in the Blazing Fire.
And mention in the Book, Idris; he too was of the truth and a Prophet,
And if they dispute with thee, say thou: Allah knoweth best that which ye Work.
And when they repented and realised that they had gone astray, they said, “If our Lord does not have mercy on us and forgive us, we are ruined.”
Your Lord knows very well what is in your hearts if you are righteous, for He is All-forgiving to those who are penitent.
By the heaven full of paths,
That when we have died and become dust and bones, we will indeed be recompensed?'"
When the heaven is split asunder,
God has now lightened your burden, knowing that there is weakness in you. If there are a hundred steadfast among you, they will defeat two hundred; and if there are a thousand of you, they will defeat two thousand by God’s leave. God is with the steadfast.
that it is He who is the Lord of Sirius;
If thou wouldst wonder, surely wonderful is their saying, 'What, when we are dust shall we indeed then be raised up again in new creation?' Those are they that disbelieve in their Lord; those -- on their necks are fetters; those shall be the inhabitants of the Fire, therein dwelling forever.
And besides these two there shall be two other Gardens.
Or are they planning a conspiracy? So the conspiracy will befall only upon the disbelievers.
by the Ten (secret) Nights,
They are those who disbelieve in the signs of their Lord and in the meeting with Him; so of non-effect will be made their works, and We shall not allow them on the Day of Judgment any weight.
Therefore, remind and preach (mankind, O Muhammad SAW of Islamic Monotheism). By the Grace of Allah, you are neither a soothsayer, nor a madman.
They said: "By Allah! You will never cease remembering Yusuf (Joseph) until you become weak with old age, or until you be of the dead."
And when We delivered you from Firon's people who subjected you to severe torment, killing your sons and sparing your women, and in this there was a great trial from your Lord.
From Allah, Owner of the ascending steps.
he truly saw him on the clear horizon;
As he was building the ark, whenever some of his people passed by him, they ridiculed him. He said, “If you ridicule us, we will ridicule you, just as you ridicule.”
Surely Hell is the promised place for all of them."
Neither having the coolness of the shade nor availing against the flame.
Verily those who hope not for meeting with us, and, well- pleased with the life of the world, and are satisfied therewith, and those who are neglectful of our signs.
O you who believe! Be conscious of God, and seek the means of approach to Him, and strive in His cause, so that you may succeed.
For those on the Right Hand.
an apostle reciting to you the manifest signs of Allah that He may bring out those who have faith and do righteous deeds from darkness into light. And whoever has faith in Allah and does righteous deeds, He shall admit him into gardens with streams running in them, to remain in them forever. Allah has certainly granted him an excellent provision.
Thus does Allah seal the hearts of those who do not know.
'We are debt-loaded;
Indeed you are calling them to a Straight Path,
If you are in doubt of what We have sent down to Our worshiper (Prophet Muhammad), produce a chapter comparable to it. Call upon your helpers, other than Allah, to assist you, if you are true.
When Our verses are recited to him, he says, "Legends of the former peoples."
Between them and the Cities on which We had poured our blessings, We had placed Cities in prominent positions, and between them We had appointed stages of journey in due proportion: "Travel therein, secure, by night and by day."
Had We willed, We could have shown them to you, and you should have known them by their marks, but surely, you will know them by the tone of their speech! And Allah knows all your deeds.
Alif Lam Ra. These are the verses of the Book and (of) a Quran that makes (things) clear.
Say: 'I am ordered to worship Allah making my religion sincerely His.
(When the people came to the temple and saw the broken idols) they asked each other, "Who has done this to our gods? He certainly is an unjust person".
Give thou good tidings to those who believe and do deeds of righteousness, that for them await gardens underneath which rivers flow; whensoever they are provided with fruits therefrom they shall say, 'This is that wherewithal we were provided before'; that they shall be given in perfect semblance; and there for them shall be spouses purified; therein they shall dwell forever.
And when he arrived at the water of Madyan (Midian) he found there a group of men watering (their flocks), and besides them he found two women who were keeping back (their flocks). He said: "What is the matter with you?" They said: "We cannot water (our flocks) until the shepherds take back (their flocks). And our father is a very old man."
She placed a screen (to screen herself) from them; then We sent to her Our Ruh [angel Jibrael (Gabriel)], and he appeared before her in the form of a man in all respects.
They and their spouses - in shade, reclining on adorned couches.
For what day is that time fixed?
Blessed be He Who sent down the criterion (of right and wrong, i.e. this Quran) to His slave (Muhammad SAW) that he may be a warner to the 'Alamin (mankind and jinns).
Of diverse degrees shall be they with Allah, and Allah is Beholder of that which they work.
Let not the believers take disbelievers for their friends in preference to believers. Whoso doeth that hath no connection with Allah unless (it be) that ye but guard yourselves against them, taking (as it were) security. Allah biddeth you beware (only) of Himself. Unto Allah is the journeying.
Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day will never ask your leave to be excused from striving (in the cause of Allah) with their belongings and their lives. Allah fully knows the God-fearing.
Lo! We are sending the she-camel as a test for them; so watch them and have patience;
Therefore, maintain just measure and do not transgress against the Balance.
And of the cattle (He produceth) some for burdens, some for food. Eat of that which Allah hath bestowed upon you, and follow not the footsteps of the devil, for lo! he is an open foe to you.
And follow not (O man i.e., say not, or do not or witness not, etc.) that of which you have no knowledge (e.g. one's saying: "I have seen," while in fact he has not seen, or "I have heard," while he has not heard). Verily! The hearing, and the sight, and the heart, of each of those you will be questioned (by Allah).
And there have come to them such tidings as contain a deterrent --
and send against them flocks of birds
And recite to them the news of Abraham,
And they assign a portion of that which We have given them unto what they know not. By Allah! but ye will indeed be asked concerning (all) that ye used to invent.
O Prophet! When any of you divorce your wives, divorce them during their period of purity and calculate the period carefully: be mindful of God, your Lord. Do not drive them out of their homes, nor should they themselves leave, unless they become openly guilty of immoral conduct. These are the bounds set by God. He who transgresses God's bounds wrongs his own soul. You never know, after that, God may well bring about some new situation.
When they are told to say their prayers, they do not bow down (in prayer).
He has forbidden you only carrion, blood, the flesh of swine, and that which has been offered to other than Allah. But should someone be compelled, without being rebellious or transgressive, there shall be no sin upon him. Indeed Allah is all-forgiving, all-merciful.
Is he to whom We have promised a goodly promise which he shall meet with like him whom We have provided with the provisions of this world's life, then on the day of resurrection he shall be of those who are brought up?
So worship what you like besides Him. Say (O Muhammad SAW): "The losers are those who will lose themselves and their families on the Day of Resurrection. Verily, that will be a manifest loss!"
Say: 'Those who forge against God falsehood shall not prosper.
and brought their hearts together. Hadst thou expended all that is in the earth, thou couldst not have brought their hearts together; but God brought their hearts together; surely He is All-mighty, All-wise.
When she gave birth, she said, "My Lord, I have given birth to a girl," God knew very well what she had given birth to: a male is not like a female, "I have named her Mary and placed her and her children in Your protection from the rejected Satan."
And the earth, He expanded it after that.
Then (a voice) called to her from below: "Grieve not; your Lord has made a rivulet gush forth right below you.
They said: By Allah! you will not cease to remember Yusuf until you are a prey to constant disease or (until) you are of those who perish.
Verily! This is the true narrative [about the story of 'Iesa (Jesus)], and, La ilaha ill-Allah (none has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the One and the Only God, Who has neither a wife nor a son). And indeed, Allah is the All-Mighty, the All-Wise.
God has made the Ka'bah, the Sacred House, a means of support for mankind, as also the holy month, the sacrificial offerings, and consecrated cattle, so that you may understand that known to God is all that is in the heavens and the earth, and God has knowledge of everything.
They said, "You are only of those affected by magic.
And shadow of black smoke,
Say, "I seek refuge in the Lord of mankind,
What is with you comes to an end, but what is with God abides; and surely We shall recompense those who were patient their wage, according to the best of what they did.
That is the good tidings God gives to His servants who believe and do righteous deeds. Say: 'I do not ask of you a wage for this, except love for the kinsfolk; and whosoever gains a good deed, We shall give him increase of good in respect of it. Surely God is All-forgiving, All-thankful.
But there are others who pray, "Our Lord, grant us good in this world as well as good in the world to come, and protect us from the torment of the Fire."
They raced to the door and she tore his shirt from behind. And by the door, they met her husband whereupon she said: 'What is the recompense of one whose intent is evil against your people other than being imprisoned, or sternly punished'
Allah draws an example: a man jointly owned by several contending masters, and a man belonging entirely to one man: are the two equal in comparison? All praise belongs to Allah! But most of them do not know.
That was because their messengers kept bringing them clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty) but they disbelieved; so Allah seized them. Lo! He is Strong, severe in punishment.
Say: I have no power to hurt or benefit myself, save that which Allah willeth. For every nation there is an appointed time. When their time cometh, then they cannot put it off an hour, nor hasten (it).
Those who belie the Book and that message wherewith We sent Our apostles, presently they shall come to know.
Prosperous is he who purifies himself,
When a sign comes to them, they say, "We will not believe in it until we are given what God's messengers have been given. But God knows best whom to appoint as His Messenger. Humiliation before God and severe torment will befall the evil-doers for their scheming.
If there had been in them any gods except Allah, they would both have certainly been in a state of disorder; therefore glory be to Allah, the Lord of the dominion, above what they attribute (to Him).
So they went on until they came to the people of a town. They asked its people for food, but they refused to extend them any hospitality. There they found a wall which was about to collapse, so he erected it. He said, ‘Had you wished, you could have taken a wage for it.’
Indeed those who are faithless and bar [others] from the way of Allah, have certainly strayed into far error.
This is the fire which you used to give the lie to.
'Our Lord' supplicated Moses. 'You have given Pharaoh and his Council adornments and possessions in this life. Our Lord, let them go astray from Your Path. Our Lord, destroy their possessions and harden their hearts so that they shall not believe until they see the painful punishment.
We will ease him toward ease.
Say: "I am not a new Messenger to come, nor do I know what is to be done to me or you. I only follow what is revealed to me. My duty is only to warn you clearly."
And recall what time Musa prayed for drink for his people. We said: smite With thy staff the stone. Then there gushed forth thereout twelve springs; every people already knew their drinking-place; eat and drink of the provision of Allah, and commit not evil on the earth as corrupters.
[But first] stop them! For they must be questioned.’
Say: "The Truth has arrived, and Falsehood neither creates anything new, nor restores anything."
Perhaps you will destroy yourself with grief, because they do not become believers.
It has seven gates; for every gate is of them a portion designated."
And to establish them in the land; and to show Pharaoh, Hamaan, and their troops, the very thing they feared.
"O ye assembly of Jinns and men! came there not unto you messengers from amongst you, setting forth unto you My signs, and warning you of the meeting of this Day of yours?" They will say: "We bear witness against ourselves." It was the life of this world that deceived them. So against themselves will they bear witness that they rejected Faith.
And We gave him the glad tidings of Ishaque (Isaac) a Prophet from the righteous.
And the earth - We spread it out and cast therein firmly set mountains and made grow therein [something] of every beautiful kind,
(The sinners) will be told: "Invoke your partners." They will call on them, but they will not answer; and they will see the torment (and wish) if only they had come to guidance.
Lo! those who kept their duty dwell in gardens and delight,
With them will be spouses, modest of gaze and beautiful of eye,
These two groups (the believers and unbelievers) are in dispute about their Lord. As for those that disbelieve, garments of fire have been cut out for them; boiling water shall be poured down over their heads,
If you divorce them before the marriage is consummated, but after their dower money has been settled, give them the half of their dower money, unless they [the women] agree to forego it, or the man [the husband] in whose hand lies the marriage knot foregoes it. To forego is nearer to righteousness. Do not neglect any chance of behaving benevolently towards each other. God is observant of whatever you do.
The Day they see the angels,- no joy will there be to the sinners that Day: The (angels) will say: "There is a barrier forbidden (to you) altogether!"
And said, “This is nothing but magic learnt from earlier men.”
Then press forward as in a race,
Say, "O mankind, the truth has come to you from your Lord, so whoever is guided is only guided for [the benefit of] his soul, and whoever goes astray only goes astray [in violation] against it. And I am not over you a manager."
We established him in the land and gave him means to all things.
and that He might also know the hypocrites when it was said of them, 'Come now, fight in the way of God, or repel!' They said, 'If only we knew how to fight, we would follow you.' They that day were nearer to unbelief than to belief, saying with their mouths that which never was in their hearts; and God knows very well the things they hide;
And Allah has made some of you excel others in the means of subsistence, so those who are made to excel do not give away their sustenance to those whom their right hands possess so that they should be equal therein; is it then the favor of Allah which they deny?
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
Indeed in that is a warning for whoever would fear [Allah].
and for their taking usury—though they had been forbidden from it—and for eating up the wealth of the people wrongfully. And We have prepared for the faithless among them a painful punishment.
So by your Lord, surely, We shall gather them together, and (also) the Shayatin (devils) (with them), then We shall bring them round Hell on their knees.
So verily thou canst not make the dead hear, nor canst thou make the deaf hear the call when they turn away in flight.
Yes indeed; We are able to shape again his fingers.
And O dear Prophet, We have not sent you except with a Prophethood that covers the entire mankind, heralding glad tidings and warnings, but most people do not know. (Prophet Mohammed – peace and blessings be upon him – is the Prophet towards all mankind.)
Such are they whom Allah has cursed, so that He has made them deaf and blinded their sight.
It is He who created you from a single soul, and made from it its mate, that he might find comfort with her. So when he had covered her, she bore a light burden and passed [some time] with it. When she had grown heavy, they both invoked Allah, their Lord: ‘If You give us a healthy [child], we will be surely grateful.’
And if you fear treachery from any people (with whom you have a covenant) then publicly throw their covenant at them. Allah does not love the treacherous.
Again, what do you know – of what sort is the Day of Justice!
We send the fertilizing winds; and send down water from the sky, and give it to you to drink, and you are not the ones who store it.
there has come to them many a tiding wherein there are warnings,
Then We changed evil for good, until they multiplied and said: 'Our fathers were indeed touched by misfortune and adversity' So We seized them suddenly while they were unaware.
So by your Lord, surely, We shall gather them together, and (also) the Shayatin (devils) (with them), then We shall bring them round Hell on their knees.
Has your Lord chosen sons for you, and created daughters for Himself from among the angels? Indeed you utter a profound word!
Believers, do not take intimates with other than your own. They spare nothing to ruin you, they yearn for you to suffer. Hatred has already shown itself from their mouths, and what their chests conceal is yet greater. Indeed, We have made clear to you the signs, if you understand.
Indeed God loves those who honour their covenants and fear Him. God loves the righteous.
Why have bracelets of gold not been given to him and why have some angels not accompanied him?"
Some of the Bedouins who sought to be excused came, so that they may be granted leave [to stay back]; while those who lied to Allah and His Apostle sat back. Soon there shall visit the faithless among them a painful punishment.
which none shall touch except the purified;
No indeed! We will write what he says, and will keep extending the agony for him.
See they not how Allah originates creation, then repeats it: truly that is easy for Allah.
And you cannot escape in the earth; and you have neither a friend nor any supporter against Allah.
And they will say to their skins, “Why did you testify against us?” They will say, “God, Who made all things speak, made us speak. It is He who created you the first time, and to Him you are returned.”
And be not like unto those who separated and differed among themselves after there had come unto them evidences. These! for them shall be a torment mighty.
A guide and a reminder for men of understanding.
And indeed We know that they (polytheists and pagans) say: "It is only a human being who teaches him (Muhammad SAW)." The tongue of the man they refer to is foreign, while this (the Quran) is a clear Arabic tongue.
The day We shall gather the righteous to (Allah) Most Gracious, like a band presented before a king for honours,
Or (why is not) treasure thrown down unto him, or why hath he not a paradise from whence to eat? And the evil-doers say: Ye are but following a man bewitched.
All of them shall (one day) be gathered before Us.
And when he turneth away (from thee) his effort in the land is to make mischief therein and to destroy the crops and the cattle; and Allah loveth not mischief.
O ye who believe! Endure, outdo all others in endurance, be ready, and observe your duty to Allah, in order that ye may succeed.
Who has fed them against hunger, and has secured them against fear.
They will say: "Woe to us! Who has raised us up from our place of sleep." (It will be said to them): "This is what the Most Beneficent (Allah) had promised, and the Messengers spoke truth!"
It is He who forms you in the wombs [of your mothers] however He wishes. There is no god except Him, the All-mighty, the All-wise.
Our Lord! and grant us what Thou hast promised us by Thy apostles; and disgrace us not on the day of resurrection; surely Thou dost not fail to perform the promise.
This day every soul shall be rewarded for what it has earned; no injustice (shall be done) this day; surely Allah is quick in reckoning.
Or are they jealous of mankind because of that which Allah of His bounty hath bestowed upon them? For We bestowed upon the house of Abraham (of old) the Scripture and wisdom, and We bestowed on them a mighty kingdom.
“And that ‘Set your face straight* for religion, apart from all others; and never be of those who ascribe partners (to Allah)’.” (* Your intention sincerely for religion.)
Whosoever has done even an atom's weight of good will behold it;
And warn by the Qur'an those who fear that they will be gathered before their Lord - for them besides Him will be no protector and no intercessor - that they might become righteous.
"Beg your Lord to forgive you, and turn to Him. Indeed my Lord is compassionate and loving."
Your Lord gives to whom He will His provisions both abundantly and sparingly. He is aware and sees His worshipers.
and those who keep their trusts and covenants,
"Now put thy hand into thy bosom, and it will come forth white without stain (or harm): (these are) among the nine Signs (thou wilt take) to Pharaoh and his people: for they are a people rebellious in transgression."
Satan asked the Lord to give him respite (keep him alive) until the Day of Resurrection.
they shall burn in a Scorching Fire;
"We never heard (the like) of this among the people of these later days. This is nothing but an invention!
so that you believe in Allah and His Messenger and that you support him, revere him (Prophet Muhammad), and exalt Him (Allah), at the dawn and in theevening.
and man says, ‘What is the matter with her?’
as a rich provision from One who is ever forgiving and most merciful."
We have sent down Revelations that make the reality quite plain; however, Allah guides to the straight path whomsoever He pleases.
O you who believe! save yourselves and your families from a fire whose fuel is men and stones; over it are angels stern and strong, they do not disobey Allah in what He commands them, and do as they are commanded.
So when I have proportioned him and breathed into him of My spirit, then fall down in prostration before him.’
In which they will remain forever; in it they will find neither a protector nor any supporter.
[Mention] when the youths retreated to the cave and said, "Our Lord, grant us from Yourself mercy and prepare for us from our affair right guidance."
Then Adam received from his Lord [some] words, and He accepted his repentance. Indeed, it is He who is the Accepting of repentance, the Merciful.
A spring wherefrom the slaves of Allah will drink, causing it to gush forth abundantly.
So indeed with hardship is ease.
He therefore smiled beamingly at her speech*, and submitted, “My Lord, bestow me guidance so that I thank you for the favour which You bestowed upon me and my parents, and so that I may perform the good deeds which please You, and by Your mercy include me among Your bondmen who are worthy of Your proximity.” (Prophet Sulaiman heard the voice of the she ant from far away.)
He said, “I am better than he; You created me from fire, and You created him from clay.”
So they went away leaving him behind.
He said, “My Lord! Therefore give me respite till the day when all will be raised.”
Or, they are like darkness upon a deep sea covered with a wave above which is another wave, above which are clouds, darkness piled one upon the other; when he stretches out his hand he can scarcely see it. Indeed, to whomsoever Allah assigns no light, he shall have no light.
Or do they say, 'He has forged it'? Say: 'Then bring you ten suras the like of it, forged; and call upon whom you are able, apart from God, if you speak truly.'
But as for he who withholds and considers himself free of need
And He brought down from their strongholds those of the People of the Book who backed them, and He threw terror into their hearts. Some of them you killed, and others you took captive.
And whoever earns a fault or a sin and then throws it on to someone innocent, he has indeed burdened himself with falsehood and a manifest sin.
Say: 'Shall we call, apart from God, on that which neither profits nor hurts us, and shall we be turned back on our heels after that God has guided us? -- Like one lured to bewilderment in the earth by Satans, though he has friends who call him to guidance, "Come to us!" Say: 'God's guidance is the true guidance, and we are commanded to surrender to the Lord of all Being,
Then after that you turned away. Had it not been for the Grace and Mercy of Allah upon you, indeed you would have been among the losers.
So why did those whom they had set up as gods apart from Allah, hoping that they would bring them nearer to Him, not come to their aid? Instead, they failed them. This was the end of the lie they had fabricated and the false beliefs they had invented.
(Pharaoh) said: If thou choosest a god other than me, I assuredly shall place thee among the prisoners.
Allah hath promised you abundant spoils that ye shall take, and these He hath hastened to you, and hath restrained the hands of people from you, that it may be a sign Unto the believers, and that He may guide you to a straight path.
Then as for him who is given his book in his right hand,
All that we relate to thee of the stories of the messengers,- with it We make firm thy heart: in them there cometh to thee the Truth, as well as an exhortation and a message of remembrance to those who believe.
Give the relatives their [due] right, and the needy and the traveller [as well], but do not squander wastefully.
God said, "Your prayer is granted, so continue, then, both of you, steadfastly on the right path, and do not follow the path of those who have no knowledge."
As for those who attained to faith and did righteous works and believed in what was revealed to Muhammad -- which indeed is the Truth from their Lord -- Allah has remitted their evil deeds and has set their condition right.
The heart did not lie [about] what it saw.
So when the magicians came, Moses said to them, ‘Throw down what you have to throw.’
And say: Work; so Allah will see your work and (so will) His Apostle and the believers; and you shall be brought back to the Knower of the unseen and the seen, then He will inform you of what you did.
In His place they invoke only females (the pagan deities); and instead of Him they invoke Satan the obstinate rebel
And when We said to you: Surely your Lord encompasses men; and We did not make the vision which We showed you but a trial for men and the cursed tree in the Quran as well; and We cause them to fear, but it only adds to their great inordinacy.
And the mountains as pegs?
Who is then more unjust than he who utters a lie against Allah and (he who) gives the lie to the truth when it comes to him; is there not in hell an abode for the unbelievers?
Nor any food save filth
If you question them about their manners, they say, "We were only arguing for the sake of amusement." Ask them, "Were you mocking God, His revelations, and His Messenger?"
Certainly did Allah confer [great] favor upon the believers when He sent among them a Messenger from themselves, reciting to them His verses and purifying them and teaching them the Book and wisdom, although they had been before in manifest error.
There is no compulsion in religion. Certainly, right has become clearly distinct from wrong. Whoever rejects the devil and believes in God has firmly taken hold of a strong handle that never breaks. God is All-hearing and knowing.
Thus do We deal with the Mujrimun (polytheists, disbelievers, sinners, criminals, etc.)!
If you call them to guidance they will not follow you. It is all the same if you call them or hold your tongue.
So O men and jinns! Which favour of your Lord will you deny?
Your Lord would never destroy the townships unjustly while their inhabitants were bringing about reform.
O you who have believed, what is [the matter] with you that, when you are told to go forth in the cause of Allah, you adhere heavily to the earth? Are you satisfied with the life of this world rather than the Hereafter? But what is the enjoyment of worldly life compared to the Hereafter except a [very] little.
And a multitude of those of later time.
and We gave them of Our Mercy and We appointed to them a truthful, highly sincere tongue,
If it were Our Will, We could drown them: then would there be no helper (to hear their cry), nor could they be delivered,
Allah made it but a message of hope for you, and an assurance to your hearts: (in any case) there is no help except from Allah. The Exalted, the Wise:
And he had fruit; he therefore said to his companion – and he used to debate with him – “I exceed you in wealth, and am more powerful in respect of men.”
Allah has set a seal upon their hearts and upon their hearing and there is a covering over their eyes, and there is a great punishment for them.
concerning the sinners,
It shall be no offense for them (to be seen unveiled) by their fathers, their sons, their brothers, their brothers' sons, their sisters' sons, their women, and those whom their right hands possess. And fear Allah, for Allah is witness of everything.
Had he invented sayings against Us,
So some people gave the same job.
Allah! There is no Allah save Him. He gathereth you all unto a Day of Resurrection whereof there is no doubt. Who is more true in statement than Allah?
And clusters of banana plants.
Bear patiently with what they say, and ignore them politely.
It may be if he divorced you (all) that his Lord will give him instead of you, wives better than you, Muslims (who submit to Allah), believers, obedient to Allah, turning to Allah in repentance, worshipping Allah sincerely, fasting or emigrants (for Allah's sake), previously married and virgins.
When He shall gather you all for the Day of Gathering, that will be the Day of loss and gain; and whoever believes in God and does good deeds shall be forgiven their sins and admitted to Gardens through which rivers flow, where they shall dwell forever. That is the supreme triumph.
his wife and his children.
Falsehood cannot approach it – neither from its front nor from its back; it is sent down by the Wise, the Most Praiseworthy.
By the wise Qur'an.
How can there be for them an admonition (at the time when the torment has reached them), when a Messenger explaining things clearly has already come to them.
On the earth are diverse tracts, adjoining one another: vineyards and cornfields and groves of palm, the single and the clustered. Their fruits are nourished by the same water; yet We make the taste of some excel that of others. In this also are signs for people who understand.
Then your Lord declared that, until the Day of Resurrection, He would send others against them to inflict terrible suffering on them. Your Lord is swift in retribution; yet surely He is most forgiving and merciful.
"We cannot find the master's goblet. Whoever comes up with it will be given a camel-load of grain; I vouch for it."
Although they had lost hope before it was sent down upon them.
The chiefs of those who disbelieved from among his people said: Most surely we see you in folly, and most surely we think you to be of the liars.
Say: 'Wait if you will; I shall be waiting with you'
They said: "We broke not the promise to thee, as far as lay in our power: but we were made to carry the weight of the ornaments of the (whole) people, and we threw them (into the fire), and that was what the Samiri suggested.
When they were told, "Settle down in this town, eat as you wish, seek forgiveness and enter the gate prostrating yourselves (in obedience to the Lord) and We will forgive you your sins and increase the reward of the righteous people,
And what is with them that Allah should not punish them, whereas in fact they prevent from the Sacred Mosque and they are not worthy (of being the custodians) of it; only the pious are its befitting custodians, but most of them do not have knowledge.
And those in the Fire will say to the keepers of Gehenna (Hell): 'Call your Lord to lessen our punishment for one day'
I had no knowledge of the High Council when they disputed.
His companion said to him while he was conversing with him, "Have you disbelieved in He who created you from dust and then from a sperm-drop and then proportioned you [as] a man?
This is a warner of the warners of old.
Allah said: verily then thou art of the respited:
Then he said to the one he deemed should be saved of the two, 'Mention me in thy lord's presence.' But Satan caused him to forget to mention him to his master, so that he continued in the prison for certain years.
Ah! ye are those who fell to contending respecting that whereof ye had some knowledge, wherefore then should ye contend respecting that whereof ye have no knowledge! And Allah knoweth, and ye know not.
and also a large throng from those of later times.
Seest thou if he denies (Truth) and turns away?
Fight in the way of Allah those who fight you but do not transgress. Indeed. Allah does not like transgressors.
And We saved Moses and those with him, all together.
by the established House (Mecca),
And in almost all of this work, I described a word of "matus," thought, which we think is the central role we think of ourselves and all we do.
(Muhammad), tell them, "Jesus is a sign of the Hour of Doom. Have no doubt about it and follow me; this is the straight path.
But whoever turns back and disbelieves,
Except his wife." Allah decreed that she is of those who remain behind.
( a) How much do you now pay?
God is the Creator of all things, He has charge of everything;
And do not consume one another’s wealth by unjust means, nor offer it as bribes to the officials in order to consume part of other people’s wealth illicitly, while you know.
We gave Moses nine clear signs—ask the Children of Israel. When he went to them, Pharaoh said to him, “I think that you, Moses, are bewitched.”
If you divorce them before the marriage is consummated, but after their dower money has been settled, give them the half of their dower money, unless they [the women] agree to forego it, or the man [the husband] in whose hand lies the marriage knot foregoes it. To forego is nearer to righteousness. Do not neglect any chance of behaving benevolently towards each other. God is observant of whatever you do.
O ye who believe! Remember Allah's favour unto you, how a people were minded to stretch out their hands against you but He withheld their hands from you; and keep your duty to Allah. In Allah let believers put their trust.
And what do you know what that indubitable event is?
It is He who gave you life, then He shall make you dead, then He shall give you life. Surely man is ungrateful.
And Noah -- when he called before, and We answered him, and delivered him and his people from the great distress,
But whenever any good came to them, they would say, ‘This is our due.’ And if any ill visited them, they took it for ill omens attending Moses and those who were with him. (Look! Indeed the cause of their ill omens is from Allah, but most of them do not know.)
by those who swim smoothly,
So be thou patient; surely God's promise is true; and let not those who have not sure faith make thee unsteady.
Enter Paradise joyfully, both you and your spouses.”
The keepers of Hell will ask: “Did your Messengers not come to you with Clear Signs?” They will say: “Yes (they did).” The keepers of Hell will say: “Then you yourselves should call (upon the Lord). And the call of the unbelievers will end in vain.”
So when I have proportioned him and breathed into him of My spirit, then fall down in prostration before him.’
And this life of the world is but: sport and play. Verily the home of the Hereafter--that is life indeed, if they but knew!
Had We sent down this Quran on a mountain, you would certainly have seen it falling down and splitting asunder, because of the fear of God. We set forth these parables to men so that they may reflect.
And We sent, following in their footsteps (Prophet) Jesus, the son of Mary, confirming that which was before him in the Torah, and gave him the Gospel, in which there is guidance and light, confirming that which was before him in the Torah, a guide and an admonition to the cautious.
"And they have plotted a mighty plot.
Had your Lord so willed, He would surely have made mankind one community. But as things stand, now they will not cease to differ among themselves and to follow erroneous ways
On the Day of Resurrection you shall see that the faces of those who had lied against Allah have turned dark. Is Hell not vast enough to provide a room to the vainglorious?
And now they reject the truth when it reaches them: but soon shall they learn the reality of what they used to mock at.
And grant me an honourable mention in later generations;
Say: The angel of death who is given charge of you shall cause you to die, then to your Lord you shall be brought back.
At first, I was looking for a wall in my home town, and it was that The Watchtower was built in Palton.
Did We not destroy the ancients?
You shall certainly taste the painful punishment:
This is a contaminated process that's a tragedy for people who breathe.
Thee only we serve; to Thee alone we pray for succour.
And when We let mankind taste of mercy after an adversity hath touched them, forthwith they have a plot with regard to his signs. Say thou: Allah is swifter in plotting. Verily Our mesengers write down that which ye plot.
That is most suitable: that they may give the evidence in its true nature and shape, or else they would fear that other oaths would be taken after their oaths. But fear Allah, and listen (to His counsel): for Allah guideth not a rebellious people:
Give full measure when you are measuring, and weigh on a balanced scale. This is better, and excellent its consequence.
And they defeated them by God’s leave, and David killed Goliath, and God gave him sovereignty and wisdom, and taught him as He willed. Were it not for God restraining the people, some by means of others, the earth would have gone to ruin. But God is gracious towards mankind.
See you not (O Muhammad SAW) that Allah, He it is Whom glorify whosoever is in the heavens and the earth, and the birds with wings out-spread (in their flight). Of each one He (Allah) knows indeed his Salat (prayer) and his glorification, [or everyone knows his Salat (prayer) and his glorification], and Allah is All-Aware of what they do.
Soon shall We settle your affairs, O both ye worlds!
And ornaments of gold. Yet all that would have been but a provision of the life of the world. And the Hereafter with your Lord would have been for those who keep from evil.
So will it be; and whoever retaliates with the like of what he has been made to suffer, and is aggressed against [again] thereafter, Allah will surely help him. Indeed Allah is all-excusing, all-forgiving.
that We may bring forth with it grain, plants
Then He directed Himself to the heaven while it was smoke and said to it and to the earth, "Come [into being], willingly or by compulsion." They said, "We have come willingly."
Until ye visit the graves.
Then, when they perceived Our might, behold, they ran headlong out of it.
And shadow of black smoke,
And (there will be) Companions with beautiful, big, and lustrous eyes,-
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
Whenever, in their anguish, they would go forth from thence they are driven back therein and (it is said unto them): Taste the doom of burning.
Have you thought about the fire you kindle?
Those whom Allah guides are rightly guided; but for those whom He leads astray you shall find no guardian, other than Him. On the Day of Resurrection We shall gather all of them upon their faces, blind, dumb, deaf. Gehenna shall be their refuge, whenever it dwindles, We will increase the Blaze for them.
My Lord! grant me of the doers of good deeds.
Say: Consider what is it that is in the heavens and the earth; and signs and warners do not avail a people who would not believe.
So, when they forgot what they were reminded of; We opened unto them the gates of everything until; when they rejoiced in what they were given, We seized them suddenly, and behold, they were sore confounded.
But ye turned back thereafter: Had it not been for the Grace and Mercy of Allah to you, ye had surely been among the lost.
We shall ease you to the easy.
This We requited them with because they disbelieved; and We do not punish any but the ungrateful.
when their brother Salih said to them, 'Will you not be godfearing?
All the apostles We had sent before you were men of those regions, to whom We sent Our revelations. Have they not travelled on the earth and seen what befell the people before them? Surely the abode of the Hereafter is better for those who fear straying from the right path. Do you not understand?
For the Day of Decision.
When the earth is shaken with a shock
Surely in that is a sign, yet most of them are not believers.
Tell them: "Whether you spend your money willingly or unwillingly, it shall not find acceptance (with Allah) for you are an evil-doing folk."
Indeed We have sent you with the truth as a bearer of good news and as a warner; and there is not a nation but a warner has passed in it.
Korah, Pharaoh, and Haman: Moses came to them with clear signs but they were arrogant in the land. They could not escape Us.
Say, "He will give them life who produced them the first time; and He is, of all creation, Knowing."
And We have made it easy in thy language; they might haply be admonished.
And (there will be) Companions with beautiful, big, and lustrous eyes,-
If they could find a refuge or cave or a place to enter into, they would certainly have turned thereto, running away in all haste.
What is the matter with you? How do you judge?
The chiefs of Pharaoh's people said, “Will you let Moses and his people cause trouble in the land, and forsake you and your gods?” He said, “We will kill their sons, and spare their women. We have absolute power over them.”
Again, you shall surely see it with the eye of certainty
Nay, but We gave these and their fathers ease until life grew long for them. See they not how we aim to the land, reducing it of its outlying parts? Can they then be the victors?
Look how they strike for you comparisons; but they have strayed, so they cannot [find] a way.
Let not the free disposal (and affluence) of the disbelievers throughout the land deceive you.
As for those who believe and do good works, We shall make them enter Gardens through which rivers flow, to dwell therein forever; therein they shall have pure spouses, and We shall admit them into a dense shade.
And We gave them clear proofs in the command; so they did not differ except after the knowledge had come to them – due to jealousy among themselves; indeed your Lord will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection concerning the matter in which they differ.
So they set out again; until when they met a boy, the chosen bondman slew him – Moosa said, “Did you slay an innocent soul not in retribution for another? You have indeed done an extremely evil thing.”
And he said: ye have taken images instead of Allah out of affection between you in the life of the world; but on the Day of Resurrection ye shall deny each other and ye shall curse each other, and your resort shall be the Fire, and ye shall have no helpers.
and I will become upset and my tongue will fail me. So send for Aaron [to join me].
No indeed; but upon that day they shall be veiled from their Lord,
And in this wise We sent not before thee into any city a warner but the affluent thereof said: verily we! we found our fathers on a certain way and verily their footsteps we are following.
by the sky and how He built it
For sure Allah helped you at Badr when you were utterly weak. Beware, then, of Allah; perhaps you will be thankful.
Joseph said, "Lord, prison is dearer to me than that which women want me to do. Unless You protect me from their guile, I shall be attracted to them in my ignorance".
'Eat and take your joy a little; you are sinners!'
(Then they will say): Our Lord relieve us of the torment. Lo! we are believers.
And leave the sea behind at rest, for lo! they are a drowned host.
Had God not decreed exile for them, He would have certainly punished them (in some other way). In this life and in the next life they would have suffered the torment of hell fire.
they shall burn in a Scorching Fire;
Who is more wicked than he who invents lies about God? Such men shall be arraigned before their Lord, and the witnesses will testify: "These are those who imputed lies to God." Beware! The scourge of God will fall on the unjust,
He only commands you to evil and indecency, and that you should speak against God such things as you know not.
(O Muhammad), propound a parable to them. There were two men of whom We bestowed upon one of the two vineyards, surrounding both of them with date-palms and putting a tillage in between.
Then lots were drawn and he became of those who were pushed into the sea.
And verily in the love of wealth he is vehement,
Nay! say they: Medleys of dreams; nay! he has forged it; nay! he is a poet; so let him bring to us a sign as the former (prophets) were sent (with).
He said: "I am one of those who abhor your practice.
The end of both will be that they will go into the Fire, dwelling therein for ever. Such is the reward of the wrong-doers.
"Then pour over his head the torment of scalding water."
And among the bedouin Arabs there are such as regard whatever they spend (in the Way of Allah) as a fine and wait for some misfortune to befall you. May ill fortune befall them! Allah is All-Hearing, All-Knowing.
So We saved him and those with him by mercy from Us. And We eliminated those who denied Our signs, and they were not [at all] believers.
Is he who is devout, in the watches of the night prostrating himself and standing, bewaring of the Hereafter and hoping for the mercy of his Lord to be dealt with like a wicked infidel? Say thou: shall they who know and those who know not be held equal? It is only men of understanding who receive admonition.
This is how We reward the virtuous.
Do not be like those who say, ‘We hear,’ though they do not hear.
But if they turn away, then say: I warn you of a thunderbolt like the thunderbolt (which fell of old upon the tribes) of A'ad and Thamud;
[Who is] possessed of power and with the Owner of the Throne, secure [in position],
They said, "Call upon your Lord for us to make plain to us its colour." He said, "He says, 'It is a yellow cow, bright in its colour, pleasing to the beholders.' "
but some faces will be covered with dust
Or am I [not] better than this one who is insignificant and hardly makes himself clear?
He said: "O my Lord! How shall I have son, seeing I am very old, and my wife is barren?" "Thus," was the answer, "Doth Allah accomplish what He willeth."
Verily! When the water rose beyond its limits [Nuh's (Noah) Flood], We carried you (mankind) in the floating [ship that was constructed by Nuh (Noah)].
Say: Allah suffices as a witness between me and you; surely He is Aware of His servants, Seeing.
Such is the Bounty from Allah, and Allah is Sufficient as All-Knower.
They fall down upon their faces weeping, and [the Quran] increases their humility."
We said: O fire! be a comfort and peace to Ibrahim;
Thus do We make it to enter into the hearts of the guilty;
Then as for him who is given his book in his right hand,
Believers, do not accept illegal interest in order to increase your wealth many times over. Have fear of God so that you will have everlasting happiness.
Let them worship the Lord of this House,
Those—their penalty is that upon them falls the curse of God, and of the angels, and of all mankind.
Enter the gates of Hell to abide eternally therein, and wretched is the residence of the arrogant."
O my people, do not let your defiance toward me lead you to be visited by the like of what was visited on the people of Noah, or the people of Hud, or the people of Salih, and the people of Lot are not distant from you.
The Fire! They are exposed thereto morning and evening. And on the Day whereon the Hour will uprise, it will be said: cause the family of Fir'awn to enter the most grievous torment.
Certainly We raised an apostle in every nation [to preach:] ‘Worship Allah, and shun fake deities.’ Among them were some whom Allah guided, and among them were some who deserved to be in error. So travel over the land and observe how was the fate of the deniers.
Allah made it but a message of hope, and an assurance to your hearts: (in any case) there is no help except from Allah: and Allah is Exalted in Power, Wise.
It will be the Day when they are tormented at the Fire.
Allah is the Guardian of those who believe. He brings them out from darkness into the light. As for those who disbelieve, their guides are idols, they bring them out from the light into darkness. They are the companions of the Fire and shall live in it for ever.
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
The Word cannot be changed with Me; I do not wrong My worshipers'
In fact their promise is upon the Last Day – and the Last Day is very severe and very bitter!
He's six years old.
"Taste your trial. This is what you sought to hasten."
The name of plants is in front of you.
Allah has promised you abundant spoils which you shall acquire. He has instantly granted you this (victory) and has restrained the hands of people from you that it may be a Sign for the believers and He may guide you to a Straight Way.
If (such) were Our Will, We could send down to them from the sky a Sign, to which they would bend their necks in humility.
He only commands you to evil and indecency, and that you should speak against God such things as you know not.
Say, "It is He who brought you into being, and made ears and eyes and hearts for you, yet you are seldom grateful."
Then We made Our promise good to them and delivered whomsoever We pleased, and destroyed the transgressors.
I did not create the jinn and the humans except that they may worship Me.
And the stupor of death will come in truth: "This is what you have been avoiding!"
Fulfil the Covenant of Allah when ye have entered into it, and break not your oaths after ye have confirmed them; indeed ye have made Allah your surety; for Allah knoweth all that ye do.
He causes to grow for you thereby herbage, and the olives, and the palm trees, and the grapes, and of all the fruits; most surely there is a sign in this for a people who reflect.
And Pharaoh said (to his) men: 'Bring every skilled sorcerer to me.'
If a woman fears from her husband misconduct or desertion, there is no sin upon the couple if they reach a reconciliation between themselves; and peace is better. The souls are prone to greed; but if you are virtuous and Godwary, Allah is indeed well aware of what you do.
Indeed in the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the alternation of night and day, and the ships that sail at sea with profit to men, and the water that Allah sends down from the sky—with which He revives the earth after its death, and scatters therein every kind of animal—and the changing of the winds, and the clouds disposed between the sky and the earth, there are surely signs for a people who exercise their reason.
And do not plead on behalf of those who act unfaithfully to their souls; surely Allah does not love him who is treacherous, sinful;
Thus We recompense him who transgresses and does not believe in the revelations of his Lord. The punishment of the Hereafter is more severe, and more lasting.
So which of your Lord’s bounties will you both deny?
And when those who associated others with Allah see their "partners," they will say," Our Lord, these are our partners [to You] whom we used to invoke besides You." But they will throw at them the statement, "Indeed, you are liars."
Has not the story reached you, of those who rejected Faith aforetime? So they tasted the evil result of their conduct; and they had a grievous Penalty.
Moses replied: 'They are following me. My Lord, I made haste only so that I might please You'
So consume what you have taken of war booty [as being] lawful and good, and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.
Go to Pharaoh, both of you, and say, 'We are messengers from the Lord of the Worlds:
That for you; therefore taste it; and that the chastisement of the Fire is for the unbelievers.
So Allah made them taste humiliation in the life of the world. And surely the torment of the Hereafter is greater - if they but know!
A part [of mankind] He has guided and a part has deserved [to be consigned to] error, for they took devils for guardians instead of Allah, and supposed they were guided.
Allah's are the fairest names. Invoke Him by them. And leave the company of those who blaspheme His names. They will be requited what they do.
There is no moving creature on earth but its sustenance dependeth on Allah: He knoweth the time and place of its definite abode and its temporary deposit: All is in a clear Record.
And when Allah promised you one of the two parties that it shall be yours and you loved that the one not armed should he yours and Allah desired to manifest the truth of what was true by His words and to cut off the root of the unbelievers.
And when he turned his face toward Midian, he said, ‘Maybe my Lord will show me the right way.’
He [the herald] searched their bags before his brother's and then took out the cup from his brother's bag. In this way, We devised a plan on behalf of Joseph. He could not have detained his brother under the King's law, unless God so willed. We exalt whoever We please: but above those who have knowledge there is One all knowing.
When Our messengers brought Abraham the good news [of the birth of Isaac] they [also] said, "We are indeed going to destroy the people of this city, for the people of this city are truly wrongdoers."
He sends down water from the sky whereat the valleys are flooded to [the extent of] their capacity, and the flood carries along a swelling scum. And from what they smelt in the fire for the purpose of [making] ornaments or wares, [there arises] a similar scum. That is how Allah compares truth and falsehood. As for the scum, it leaves as dross, and that which profits the people stays in the earth. That is how Allah draws comparisons.
By no means! They shall soon deny their worship and shall become their adversaries instead.
and my breast will be straitened, and my tongue will not be loosed; so send to Aaron.
They used to sleep but little of the night,
Then speak to him a gentle word haply he may mind or fear.
And assuredly Unto the household of Fir'awn came the warning.
The man who believed said further: "O my people! Follow me: I will lead you to the Path of Right.
They will say: "Yes indeed; a warner did come to us, but we belied him and said: 'Allah never sent down anything (of revelation), you are only in great error.'"
A similitude of those who disbelieve in their Lord: Their works are as ashes which the wind bloweth hard upon a stormy day. They have no control of aught that they have earned. That is the extreme failure.
The likeness of those who choose other patrons than Allah is as the likeness of the spider when she taketh unto herself a house, and lo! the frailest of all houses is the spider's house, if they but knew.
The Jews say: "Allah's Hand is tied up (i.e. He does not give and spend of His Bounty)." Be their hands tied up and be they accursed for what they uttered. Nay, both His Hands are widely outstretched. He spends (of His Bounty) as He wills. Verily, the Revelation that has come to you from Allah increases in most of them their obstinate rebellion and disbelief. We have put enmity and hatred amongst them till the Day of Resurrection. Every time they kindled the fire of war, Allah extinguished it; and they (ever) strive to make mischief on earth. And Allah
O you who believe! save yourselves and your families from a fire whose fuel is men and stones; over it are angels stern and strong, they do not disobey Allah in what He commands them, and do as they are commanded.
but over My true servants you shall have no power. Your Lord will be their all-sufficient guardian."
And you committed that deed you committed, and you were ungrateful.”
Slay them wherever you may catch them and expel them from the place from which they expelled you. The sin of disbelief in God is greater than committing murder. Do not fight them in the vicinity of the Sacred Mosque in Mecca unless they start to fight. Then slay them for it is the recompense that the disbelievers deserve.
So they (too) were rushed down on their footsteps!
and guided them to a straight path.
You pass by them in the morning
In both of them will be fruits, date-palms and pomegranates.
"And our duty is only to convey plainly (the Message)."
We know that we cannot frustrate Allah in the earth, nor can we frustrate Him by flight.
If it were Our Will, We could drown them: then would there be no helper (to hear their cry), nor could they be delivered,
So the torment took hold of them: verily herein is a sign, but most of them are not believers.
And when Our command came, We turned it upside down, and rained on it, stone after stone of baked clay,
If you are in doubt of what We have sent down to you, then ask those who have been reading the Book (for a long time) before you. The truth has indeed come to you from your Lord, so do not be one of those who doubt,
By the fig and the olive
Then We shall pluck forth from every party whichever of them was the most hardened in disdain of the All-merciful;
So when they had both submitted their wills (to Allah), and he had laid him prostrate on his forehead (for sacrifice),
White, delicious to the drinkers,
He it is Who hath made you regents in the earth; so he who disbelieveth, his disbelief be on his own head. Their disbelief increaseth for the disbelievers, in their Lord's sight, naught save abhorrence. Their disbelief increaseth for the disbelievers naught save loss.
Indeed We have given you abundance.
And they say, “When we have become bones and fragments, shall we really be resurrected as a new creation?”
Who sent down water in due measure from the sky, then quickened a region that was dead -- So shall We bring you forth --
Yet they (the unbelievers) worship, other than Allah, that which can neither benefit nor harm them. Surely, the unbeliever is ever a partisan against his Lord.
And to your Lord turn for everything.
And who would be averse to the religion of Abraham except one who makes a fool of himself. And We had chosen him in this world, and indeed he, in the Hereafter, will be among the righteous.
Certainly Allah had shown to His Apostle the vision with truth: you shall most certainly enter the Sacred Mosque, if Allah pleases, in security, (some) having their heads shaved and (others) having their hair cut, you shall not fear, but He knows what you do not know, so He brought about a near victory before that.
Indeed, We have warned you of a near punishment on the Day when a man will observe what his hands have put forth and the disbeliever will say, "Oh, I wish that I were dust!"
Thus have We caused it to enter into the hearts of the guilty.
Tell the believing men to lower their gaze (from looking at forbidden things), and protect their private parts (from illegal sexual acts, etc.). That is purer for them. Verily, Allah is All-Aware of what they do.
And when Our revelations are recited unto him he turneth away in his stiff-neckedness as though he heard them not: as though there was a deafness in his ears. So announce thou unto him a torment afflictive.
Tell the believers to forgive those who do not have faith in the days of God (Day of Judgment) and Resurrection. God will give due recompense to all the people for their deeds.
They say: 'He has written tales of the ancients, they are recited to him at dawn and at the evening'
And they swear by Allah their strongest oaths that if you ordered them, they would go forth [in Allah 's cause]. Say, "Do not swear. [Such] obedience is known. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with that which you do."
Fight in the way of Allah those who fight you, but do not transgress. Indeed Allah does not like transgressors.
Those who will be gathered to Hell (prone) on their faces,- they will be in an evil plight, and, as to Path, most astray.
Surely those who do not believe, and obstruct others from the path of God, and oppose the Prophet after the way of guidance has been opened to them, will not hurt God in the least, and He will nullify all that they have done.
Forgiver of sins, Accepter of penitence, Terrible in retribution, the Bountiful; there is no god but He, and unto Him is the homecoming.
So whoever wills may heed advice from it.
Moses said to them: "Throw ye - that which ye are about to throw!"
then that he become of those who believe and counsel each other to be steadfast, and counsel each other to be merciful.
Every time I have called to them, so that You might forgive them, they have only thrust their fingers into their ears, covered themselves up with their garments, grown obstinate, and given themselves up to arrogance.
Far-fetched, far-fetched is what you are promised!
So We seized him and his hosts, and cast them into the sea. He became an object of much blame.
These two groups (the believers and unbelievers) are in dispute about their Lord. As for those that disbelieve, garments of fire have been cut out for them; boiling water shall be poured down over their heads,
We have indeed developed these women with an excellent development.
Far-fetched, far-fetched is what you are promised!
So We saved him and those with him in the laden ship.
Thus thy Lord will prefer thee and will teach thee the interpretation of events, and will perfect His grace upon thee and upon the family of Jacob as He perfected it upon thy forefathers, Abraham and Isaac. Lo! thy Lord is Knower, Wise.
We sent Moses with Our signs to Pharaoh and his Council, and he said: 'I am the Messenger of the Lord of the Worlds'
This is the straight path of your Lord. We have already elaborated the signs for a people who take admonition.
Adam was inspired by some words (of prayer) through which he received forgiveness from his Lord, for He is All-forgiving and All-merciful.
[Moses] said, "No! Indeed, with me is my Lord; He will guide me."
And you at that time look on--
Their greeting on the Day they meet Him is, “Peace,” and He has prepared for them a generous reward.
But We produced [many] generations [after Moses], and prolonged was their duration. And you were not a resident among the people of Madyan, reciting to them Our verses, but We were senders [of this message].
You shall certainly taste the painful punishment:
And they say: When will this judgment take place, If you are truthful?
Then, as for those who believed (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism) and did righteous good deeds, their Lord will admit them to His Mercy. That will be the evident success.
And there were gathered unto Sulaiman his hosts of jinns and mankind and birds, and they were set in bands.
(It will be said of such sinners), "Seize them and drag them into the middle of hell.
Your Lord knows best whoever is in the heavens and the earth. Certainly, We gave some prophets an advantage over the others, and We gave David the Psalms.
and the earth and the mountains are lifted up and then crushed with a single blow,
stars which are visible during the night
who break Allah's covenant after ratifying it; who cut asunder what Allah has ordered to be joined, and who produce chaos on the Earth. These are the people who are indeed the losers.
Indeed, we used to supplicate Him before. Indeed, it is He who is the Beneficent, the Merciful."
He has sent down upon you in the Book: "When you hear His verses being disbelieved or mocked, do not sit with them until they engage in other talk, or elseyou will surely be like them. Allah will surely gather the hypocrites and unbelievers altogether in Gehenna (Hell).
But as for him who is given his book in his left hand, he shall say, 'Would that I had not been given my book
In an assembly of virtue, in the presence of an Omnipotent King.
And if anyone of the polytheists asks you for protection, give him protection so that he may hear the Word of God; then escort him to his place of safety. That is because they are a people who do not know.
These are the communications of Allah which We recite to you with truth, and Allah does not desire any injustice to the creatures.
Then We sent Moses and his brother Aaron with Our signs and a clear authority
They used to hew out dwellings from mountains feeling secure.
He said, “O my people, why are you quick to do evil rather than good? If only you would seek God’s forgiveness, so that you may be shown mercy.”
We have written in the Psalms, after the Remembrance: 'The righteous among My worshipers shall inherit the earth'
Or that He will not seize them in their going to and fro, and they will not be able to frustrate Him?
Is not Allah the Greatest of the rulers?
They said, “You are nothing but mortals like us; the Most Gracious has not sent down anything – you are nothing but liars.”
They said while they turned toward them: what is it that ye miss!
If both husband and wife are working at work, and if they have children, the wife’s wife has twice as much in the home of the husband and has three times more work in the family's body.
Verily, He it is Who begins (punishment) and repeats (punishment in the Hereafter) (or originates the creation, and then repeats it on the Day of Resurrection).
He grants wisdom to whom He will; and whoever is granted wisdom has indeed been granted abundant wealth. Yet none bear this in mind except those endowed with understanding.
Then as for him whose measure of good deeds is heavy,
The Messenger (Muhammad SAW) believes in what has been sent down to him from his Lord, and (so do) the believers. Each one believes in Allah, His Angels, His Books, and His Messengers. They say, "We make no distinction between one another of His Messengers" - and they say, "We hear, and we obey. (We seek) Your Forgiveness, our Lord, and to You is the return (of all)."
Say: 'What thing is greatest in testimony' Say: 'Allah is a witness between me and you. This Koran has been revealed to me in order that I can warn you and all whom it reaches. Do you indeed testify that there are gods other than Allah' Say: 'I do not testify' Say: 'He is only One God, and I am quit of that which you associate'
In fact they deny the Last Day; and We have kept prepared a blazing fire for those who deny the Last Day.
near which is the Garden of the Abode,
Let the women [who are undergoing a waiting period] live in the same manner as you live yourselves, in accordance with your means; and do not harass them in order to make their lives difficult. If they are pregnant, maintain them until they give birth; if they suckle your infants, pay them for it; discuss things among yourselves in all decency -- if you cannot bear with each other, let another woman suckle for you --
If only the unbelievers knew of the Hour when they shall not be able to keep off the Fire from their faces, nor from their backs; nor shall they be helped.
Said He, 'Thou art granted, Moses, thy petition.
On the Day when Allah will resurrect them all together (for their account), then they will swear to Him as they swear to you (O Muslims). And they think that they have something (to stand upon). Verily, they are liars!
"Beg your Lord to forgive you, and turn to Him. Indeed my Lord is compassionate and loving."
They said: The penalty for it! He in whose bag (the cup) is found, he is the penalty for it. Thus we requite wrong-doers.
Then let them produce speech the like thereof, if they are truthful.
Among them are those who promised God: “If He gives us of His bounty, we will donate and be among the upright.”
But God will deliver them who feared Him to their place of salvation. No evil shall touch them, nor shall they grieve.
when your Lord comes down with the angels, rank upon rank,
when it is Allah who created you and all that you do'
And indeed hell is the promise for all of them.
They fulfill their vows and fear a day whose ill will be widespread.
The people of Noah denied before them, and [so did] the people of Rass and Thamud,
We have revealed for you (O men!) a book in which is a Message for you: will ye not then understand?
Allah has not taken any son, nor has there ever been with Him any deity. [If there had been], then each deity would have taken what it created, and some of them would have sought to overcome others. Exalted is Allah above what they describe [concerning Him].
Believers, whichever of you turns away from his faith should know that God will soon raise a people whom He loves and who love Him, who are humble towards the believers, dignified to the unbelievers, who strive hard for the cause of God, and who have no fear of anyone's accusations. This is a favor from God. He bestows His favors upon whomever He wants. God is Munificent and All-knowing.
It is the fire kindled by Allah,
Say: He will revive them Who produced them at the first, for He is Knower of every creation,
And had they believed in Allah and the prophet and that which is sent down unto him, they would not have taken them for friends, but many of them are transgressors.
Surely they that believe, and those of Jewry, and the Christians, and those Sabaeans, whoso believes in God and the Last Day, and works righteousness -- their wage awaits them with their Lord, and no fear shall be on them; neither shall they sorrow.
While as for those who accept guidance, He increases their guidance, and bestows on them their piety.
Stay in your homes and do not flaunt your charms as in the former times of ignorance. Attend to your prayers, pay the zakat and obey God and His Messenger. Women of the [Prophet"s] Household, God seeks only to remove all impurity from you, and to make you completely pure.
Then magnify the Name of thy Lord, the All-mighty.
Indeed Allah does not forgive that partners should be ascribed to Him, but He forgives anything besides that to whomever He wishes. Whoever ascribes partners to Allah has indeed fabricated [a lie] in great sinfulness.
Nay! they say: verily we have found our fathers on a certain way, and verily by their footsteps we are guided.
They will wish to get out of the Fire, but they shall not, theirs shall be a lasting punishment.
But on the contrary, he rejected Truth and turned away!
And have appointed your sleep for repose,
When the earth is shaken with its (final) earthquake.
Whom no human has touched before, nor jinn.
Let those fight in the way of Allah who sell the life of this world for the other. Whoso fighteth in the way of Allah, be he slain or be he victorious, on him We shall bestow a vast reward.
Among the people of Moses is a nation who guide [the people] by the truth and do justice thereby.
In his absence, the people of Moses adopted a calf made from their ornaments—a body which lowed. Did they not see that it could not speak to them, nor guide them in any way? They took it for worship. They were in the wrong.
And when those who did wrong (the disbelievers) will see the torment, then it will not be lightened unto them, nor will they be given respite.
Alif. Lam. Ra. These are the verses of a Book luminous.
Do you not see that We have sent the Shaitans against the unbelievers, inciting them by incitement?
there has come to them many a tiding wherein there are warnings,
He singles out for His mercy whomever He wishes, and Allah is dispenser of a great grace.’
And shadow of black smoke,
Seest thou not that to Allah bow down in worship all things that are in the heavens and on earth,- the sun, the moon, the stars; the hills, the trees, the animals; and a great number among mankind? But a great number are (also) such as are fit for Punishment: and such as Allah shall disgrace,- None can raise to honour: for Allah carries out all that He wills.
"And take in your hand a bundle of thin grass and strike therewith (your wife), and break not your oath. Truly! We found him patient. How excellent (a) slave! Verily, he was ever oft-returning in repentance (to Us)!
All who dwell in heavens and on the earth submit to God alone, willingly or unwillingly, as do their shadows in the mornings and in the evenings.
And remember, We delivered you from the people of Pharaoh: They set you hard tasks and punishments, slaughtered your sons and let your women-folk live; therein was a tremendous trial from your Lord.
Indeed your Lord knows best those who stray from His way; and He knows best those who are guided.
Is it you that cause it to grow, or are We the causers of growth?
Say, “Come – so that I may recite to you what your Lord has forbidden for you that ‘Do not ascribe any partner to Him and be good to parents; and do not kill your children because of poverty; We shall provide sustenance for all – you and them; and do not approach lewd things, the open among them or concealed; and do not unjustly kill any life which Allah has made sacred; this is the command to you, so that you may have sense.’
The Hajj (pilgrimage) is (in) the well-known (lunar year) months (i.e. the 10th month, the 11th month and the first ten days of the 12th month of the Islamic calendar, i.e. two months and ten days). So whosoever intends to perform Hajj therein by assuming Ihram), then he should not have sexual relations (with his wife), nor commit sin, nor dispute unjustly during the Hajj. And whatever good you do, (be sure) Allah knows it. And take a provision (with you) for the journey, but the best provision is At-T
by the elevated canopy;
With goblets and ewers and a cup of pure drink;
when the pregnant camels are neglected,
(Say Prophet Muhammad): 'I am only ordered to worship the Lord of this country, which He has made sacred, everything belongs to Him. And I am ordered to be of the Muslims,
What is the matter with you that you do not speak?"
It will be said (to them): "Enter you the gates of Hell, to abide therein. And (indeed) what an evil abode of the arrogant!"
He answers [the supplications of] those who have faith and do righteous deeds and enhances them out of His grace. But as for the faithless, there is a severe punishment for them.
Allah, the Eternal, Absolute;
He said: Then get out of it, for surely you are driven away:
but as for those who have deviated, they have become firewood for Gehenna!"'
If it had been Allah's plan, they would not have taken false gods: but We made thee not one to watch over their doings, nor art thou set over them to dispose of their affairs.
If you were to ask them: “Who sent down water from the sky and therewith revived the earth after its death?” they will certainly say: “Allah.” Say: “To Allah alone be praise and thanks.” But most people do not understand.
I convey unto you the messages of my Lord and am for you a true adviser.
He said: And what knowledge have I of what they do?
Verily the fellows of the Garden to-day shall be happily employed.
These—their dwelling is the Fire—on account of what they used to do.
All that - its evil is ever, in the sight of your Lord, detested.