And the thunder declares His glory with His praise, and the angels too for awe of Him; and He sends the thunderbolts and smites with them whom He pleases, yet they dispute concerning Allah, and He is mighty in prowess.
Then if he divorces her the third time, she will not be lawful to him until she has stayed with another husband; then if the other husband divorces her, it is no sin for these two to reunite if they consider that they can keep the limits of Allah established; these are the limits set by Allah which He explains for people of intellect.
Fir'awn said: ye believed in him ere I gave you leave. Verily he is your chief who hath taught you magic, so ye shall surely come to know. Surely I shall cut off your hands and feet on opposite sides and surely I shall crucify you all.
That He may reward those who believe (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism), and do righteous good deeds, out of His Bounty. Verily, He likes not the disbelievers.
And when Our commandment came to pass We saved Shu'eyb and those who believed with him by a mercy from Us; and the (Awful) Cry seized those who did injustice, and morning found them prostrate in their dwellings,
They ask thee to hasten on the Punishment: but, of a surety, Hell will encompass the Rejecters of Faith!-
If you ask them: 'Who has created the heavens and the earth' They will reply: 'Allah' Say: 'Praise belongs to Allah' But most of them do not have knowledge.
Alif, Lam, Ra. These are the Verses of the Wise Book.
and from which the cautious shall be distanced.
Who believe in the Unseen, are steadfast in prayer, and spend out of what We have provided for them;
Thank you very much.
But their professing the Faith when they (actually) saw Our Punishment was not going to profit them. (Such has been) Allah's Way of dealing with His Servants (from the most ancient times). And even thus did the Rejecters of Allah perish (utterly)!
Throw down what is in your right hand and it will swallow up all that they have performed; theirs is only a magical performance. Magicians can find no happiness in whatever they do."
When the unbelievers behold thee, they take thee only for mockery: 'Ha, is this the one who makes mention of your gods?' Yet they in the Remembrance of the All-merciful are unbelievers.
even as We had sent warning to those who had divided their religion into fragments;
If you apprehend treachery from a people (with whom you have a treaty), retaliate by breaking off (relations) with them, for God does not like those who are treacherous.
Which of the powers of your Lord will you twain - you men and jinn - then deny?
Knowest thou of that Allah knoweth whatsoever is in the heaven and the earth? Verily that is in a Book; verily that is for Allah easy.
Should We withdraw the admonition from you because you are a people far gone in transgression?
Ask the children of Israel how many a clear sign We have shown to them: (also ask them) what a severe chastisement Allah inflicts on the community that, after receiving Allah's favour exchanges it (for wretchdness).
And hath made of service unto you whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth; it is all from Him. Lo! herein verily are portents for a people who reflect.
Raised high above ranks (or degrees), (He is) the Lord of the Throne (of Authority): by His Command doth He send the Spirit (of inspiration) to any of His servants he pleases, that it may warn (men) of the Day of Mutual Meeting,-
God raised him up to Himself. God is Majestic and All-wise.
whatever phrase he utters, an observer is present.
That is how We reward those who do good.
and has created the jinn from the flame of fire.
"And had never come to know my account!"
Indeed the pious are in shade and springs.
Verily We! We have adorned the nearest heaven with an adornment: the stars.
And those who disbelieve say: 'Why has no sign been sent down to him by his Lord' Say: 'Allah leads astray whom He will, and guides those who repent,
It is not (possible) for any human being unto whom Allah had given the Scripture and wisdom and the prophethood that he should afterwards have said unto mankind: Be slaves of me instead of Allah; but (what he said was): Be ye faithful servants of the Lord by virtue of your constant teaching of the Scripture and of your constant study thereof.
Then he will take a look and sight him in the middle of hell.
Say, "The knowledge is only with Allah, and I am only a clear warner."
When the seas are poured forth,
Go to the home location
So Firaun sent gatherers into the cities.
And certainly We tried those before them, so Allah will certainly know those who are true and He will certainly know the liars.
Say, [O Muhammad], "If you should love Allah, then follow me, [so] Allah will love you and forgive you your sins. And Allah is Forgiving and Merciful."
His fellow said unto him, while he spake with him: hast thou disbelieved in Him Who created thee of dust, then of a sperm, and formed thee a man?
Say, "Not equal are the evil and the good, although the abundance of evil might impress you." So fear Allah, O you of understanding, that you may be successful.
When you [believers] are travelling in the land, you will not be blamed for shortening your prayers, if you fear the disbelievers may harm you. They are your avowed enemies.
They will have no food other than bitter and thorny fruit
And when the seas are flowed out,
He said, "The knowledge is only with God, and I inform you of what I was sent with; but I see you are an ignorant people."
Hinderer o fgood, trespasser, doubter
Moses said: "I have indeed called upon my Lord and your Lord (for protection) from every arrogant one who believes not in the Day of Account!"
We created them with definite purpose; but most of them do not understand.
Which of you is the afflicted [by a devil].
And deem not Allah negligent of that which the wrong-doers work: He only deferreth them to a Day whereon the sighthall remain staring.
When you [first] heard about it, why did not the faithful, men and women, think well of their folks, and say, 'This is an obvious calumny'?
Giving its fruit at all times, by the Leave of its Lord and Allah sets forth parables for mankind in order that they may remember.
Or askest thou them for a wage, and so they are weighed down with debt?
And early they went, resolved in intent.
Saving archive
We have revealed to you the Book in all Truth so that you judge among people by the laws of God. However, never defend the treacherous ones.
And as for those who shall be blest, they shall be in the Garden, as abiders therein so long as the heavens and the earth remain, save as thy Lord may will. a gift unending.
A multitude from the ancients.
Such is the Paradise that you shall inherit by virtue of your good deeds in the life of the world.
Indeed the charity-giving men and women, and those who lend an excellent loan to Allah - for them is double, and for them is an honourable reward.
It was sort of a hollow in the ground.
So leave them alone till they meet their Day, in which they will sink into a fainting (with horror).
Therefore remember Me, I will cause you to be spoken of and acknowledge My rights, and do not be ungrateful.
We would have given them a great reward
We will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve, because they set up with Allah that for which He has sent down no authority, and their abode is the fire, and evil is the abode of the unjust.
Through His grace He has admitted us to the everlasting Abode, where neither toil nor weariness affects us."
it is guidance and good news for the believers
He knows whatever is in the heavens and the earth, and He knows what you conceal and what you publish. God knows the thoughts within the breasts.
Then as for one whose scales are heavy [with good deeds],
We send down (stage by stage) in the Qur'an that which is a healing and a mercy to those who believe: to the unjust it causes nothing but loss after loss.
Has the story of Moses reached you?
Observest thou not those who wrangle concerning the revelations of Allah: whither are they turning away?
They (the angels) said: "Do not be afraid! We give you glad tidings of a boy (son) possessing much knowledge and wisdom."
You will see all the people kneeling down. Everyone will be summoned to the Book (containing the record of their deeds). They will be told, "On this day you will be recompensed for what you have done".
Saying: "I am alone your lord, the highest of them all."
Amid thornless lote-trees,
But if they turn away, say, "I have informed you sufficiently. Although I do not know whether what you are promised is near or far."
So hapoy thou mayest abandon part of that hich hath been revealed unto thee, and thy breast is straitened thereby, because they say: wherefore hath not a treasure been sent down unto him, or an angel come with him! Thou art but a warner, and of everything Allah is the Trustee.
And remember Ayyub (Job), when he called his Lord that, "Hardship has afflicted me, and You are the Most Merciful of all those who have mercy."
and see; and they too shall soon see.
These are the revelations of God which We recite to you for a genuine purpose. In what statements other than God's and His revelations will they then believe?
Thus do We treat the culprits.
For the composing of Koraish,
And do not consume each other's wealth in vain, nor offer it to men in authority with intent of usurping unlawfully and knowingly a part of the wealth of others.
That is Allah's grace; He grants it to whom He pleases, and Allah is the Lord of mighty grace.
but it has had no effect on them except to make them run away.
When they embark upon ships, they call to Allah making their religion sincerely His; but when He brings them safe to the land, they associate others with Him
Abiding therein forever, without desiring any change therefrom.
and they; shall be guided unto goodly speech, and they shall be guided unto the path of the All-laudable.
Say, 'O People of the Book! You do not stand on anything until you observe the Torah and the Evangel and what was sent down to you from your Lord.' Surely many of them will be increased in rebellion and unfaith by what has been sent down to you from your Lord. So do not grieve for the faithless lot.
'And it is Allah Who made you grow like vegetation from the earth.'
O ye who believe! Fear Allah and be with those who are true (in word and deed).
(God replied), "Now you declare belief in Me! but before this you were a disobedient rebel.
Most Auspicious is He Who created lofty towers in the sky and placed a lamp in it, and the luminous moon.
Joseph asked them, "Do you know what you did to Joseph and his brother in your ignorance?"
They even solicited of him his guests, whereat We blotted out their eyes, [saying,] 'Taste My punishment and My warnings!'
nor does he grudge (conveying this knowledge about) the Unseen;
Such are the ones from whom We accept the best of what they do, and overlook their misdeeds, [who will be] among the inhabitants of paradise - a true promise which they had been given.
Do you not know that to Allah belongs the kingdom of the heavens and the earth? He punishes whomever He wishes, and forgives whomever He wishes, and Allah has power over all things.
will be punished by God with the greatest punishment.
Then the fate of those who committed misdeeds was that they denied the signs of Allah and they used to deride them.
By the Lote-tree beyond which none can pass,
If you were to ask them: "Who created the heavens and the earth and Who has kept the sun and the moon in subjection?" they will certainly say: "Allah." How come, then, they are being deluded from the Truth?
[Yusuf (Joseph)] said: "Set me over the storehouses of the land; I will indeed guard them with full knowledge" (as a minister of finance in Egypt, in place of Al-'Aziz who was dead at that time).
on the day when their tongues, their hands and their feet shall testify against them touching that they were doing.
But they (the Christians and Jews) split their affair between them all shall return to Us.
But in West African music, the "one" is thought of as the end of the phrase, like the period at the end of a sentence.
Because there came Unto him a blind man.
Verily Allah has cursed the Unbelievers and prepared for them a Blazing Fire,-
Neither would it suit them, nor they can (produce it).
Have you not regarded those who were given a share of the Book, believing in idols and fake deities and saying of the pagans: 'These are better guided on the way than the faithful'?
They say: 'Our hearts are covered' But Allah has cursed them for their disbelief. Little is that they believe.
Fruits; and they will be honored
It does not befit the Prophet and those who believe, to pray for the forgiveness of polytheists even if they may be their relatives, after it has become clear to them that they are the people of hell.
He shall say: Go away into it and speak not to Me;
he indeed saw the message-bearer on the clear horizon;
Beware of the Fire, which has been prepared for the faithless,
Proclaim, "Just show me your partners (false deities) whom you worship other than Allah; show me which part of the earth have they created - or do they have any share in the heavens?" Or have We given them some Book, so they are on its clear proofs? In fact the unjust do not give promises to each other, except of deceit.
Indeed, Allah, in truth, has realized His Messenger's vision. You shall enter the Sacred Mosque in security if Allah wills, with hair shaven or cut short and without fear. He knew what you did not know, and granted you a near victory.
And if you could see when the angels take away the souls of those who disbelieve (at death), they smite their faces and their backs, (saying): "Taste the punishment of the blazing Fire."
They said: O our people! verily we have hearkened Unto a Book sent down after Musa, confirming that which was before it, guiding Unto the truth and a straight path.
Surely He knows what is spoken aloud and He knows what you hide.
Lord, grant that I may keep up the prayer, and so may my offspring. My Lord, accept my prayer.
Even if he presents his excuses.
Truly Allah knows what they hide and what they manifest; surely He does not love the proud.
So if they argue with you, say, "I have submitted myself to Allah [in Islam], and [so have] those who follow me." And say to those who were given the Scripture and [to] the unlearned, "Have you submitted yourselves?" And if they submit [in Islam], they are rightly guided; but if they turn away - then upon you is only the [duty of] notification. And Allah is Seeing of [His] servants.
On the day when some faces will become white and others black, God will ask the people with the faces which have become black, "Why did you give up your faith? Now suffer the torment for your disbelief".
or We shall show you what We have promised them; for surely We have complete power over them.
And when We bestow favor upon man, he turns away and distances himself; but when evil touches him, then he is full of extensive supplication.
Had it not been for the grace of Allah and His mercy unto you, and that Allah is Clement, Merciful, (ye had been undone).
Did we take them (wrongly) for a laughing-stock, or have our eyes missed them?
Every soul will be accompanied (by an angel) behind him and another as a witness.
I even wrote to the school principal and the host of a radio show.
When their brother Hud said to them: "Will you not take heed?
The freeing of a slave,
Abraham was, certainly, an obedient and upright person. He was not a pagan.
so that God may forgive you your past and future sins and complete His favour to you and guide you to a straight path,
They will all be brought into Our presence together.
They said, "Are you the one who did this to our gods, O Abraham?"
Removing file:
'And verily, we thought that men and jinns would not utter a lie against Allah.
It may happen that his Lord, if he divorce you, will give him in your stead wives better than you, submissive (to Allah), believing, pious, penitent, devout, inclined to fasting, widows and maids.
If a lucky chance befall you, it is evil unto them, and if disaster strike you they rejoice thereat. But if ye persevere and keep from evil their guile will never harm you. Lo! Allah is Surrounding what they do.
He knows what is hidden and what is open: too high is He for the partners they attribute to Him!
You will remember what I say to you. To Allah I commit my affair, surely, Allah sees His worshipers'
So We saved him and his family, all,
And he who believed said: O my people! follow me, I shall guide you to the path of rectitude,
There was just one blast, and they were extinguished.
O you who have faith! Do not exact usury, twofold and severalfold, and be wary of Allah so that you may be felicitous.
Certainly the dwellers in the Thicket were evildoers,
But if they turn away, then know that Allah is your master: an excellent master and an excellent helper!
Ye are the best of peoples, evolved for mankind, enjoining what is right, forbidding what is wrong, and believing in Allah. If only the People of the Book had faith, it were best for them: among them are some who have faith, but most of them are perverted transgressors.
And among the People of the Scripture is he who, if you entrust him with a great amount [of wealth], he will return it to you. And among them is he who, if you entrust him with a [single] silver coin, he will not return it to you unless you are constantly standing over him [demanding it]. That is because they say, "There is no blame upon us concerning the unlearned." And they speak untruth about Allah while they know [it].
Allah will say: "Dispute not in front of Me, I had already, in advance, sent you the threat.
And send to them, O Lord, an apostle from among them to impart Your messages to them, and teach them the Book and the wisdom, and correct them in every way; for indeed You are mighty and wise.
And also He relented toward the three who were left behind until when the earth, vast as it is, became straitened unto them and their own lives became straitened unto them and they imagined that there was no refuge from Allah except unto Him. Thereafter He relented toward them, so that they might repent. Verily Allah! He is the Relenting, the Merciful.
It is God Who splits the grain and the seed. He brings the living from the dead, and He brings the dead from the living. Such is God. So how could you deviate?
Owner of strength, of established dignity with the Lord of the Throne.
Surely, it is one of the gravest things,
And We inspired Moses: "Throw your staff." And at once, it swallowed what they were faking.
For those who are Jews, We have prohibited what We related to you before. We did not wrong them, but they used to wrong their own selves.
But she pointed to him. They said: How should we speak to one who was a child in the cradle?
Aye! thou marvellest, and they scoff.
And helped them, so they were victorious.
And those who break the covenant of God after His compact, and who snap what God has commanded to be joined, and who work corruption in the earth -- theirs shall be the curse, and theirs the Evil Abode.
To many of the pagans, the murder of their children was made to seem attractive by the idols. This led them (the pagans) to confusion in their religion and to face their own destruction. Had God wanted, they would not have murdered their children. Keep away from them and their evil gains.
And they said, "Are your gods better, or is he?" They did not present the comparison except for [mere] argument. But, [in fact], they are a people prone to dispute.
We sent him to a hundred thousand or more people.
They turn away arrogantly, leading people astray from God's path. Such men shall incur disgrace in this life and taste the punishment of the Fire on the Day of Judgement.
"Therefore eat and drink and appease your eyes; so if you meet any person then say, 'I have pledged a fast (of silence) to the Most Gracious - I will therefore not speak to any person today.'"
Therein taste they neither coolness nor (any) drink
And [God does not like] those who spend their wealth for the sake of ostentation, who do not believe in God or the Last Day. Whoever has Satan as his companion has an evil companion.
Others are held in suspense, awaiting God's decree, as to whether He will punish them, or accept their repentance. God is Aware and Wise.
And the structure which they have erected will ever inspire their hearts with doubts unless it be that their very hearts are cut into pieces. Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise.
Beware a Day whereon each soul will come pleading for itself, and each soul will be paid in full that which it hath wrought, and they shall not be wronged.
Pharaoh called to his people, "My people, is the Kingdom of Egypt not mine? And these rivers that flow at my feet, are they not mine? Do you not see?
That He may make that which the devil proposeth a temptation for those in whose hearts is a disease, and those whose hearts are hardened - Lo! the evil-doers are in open schism -
It is Allah Who created you, then bestowed upon you your sustenance, and He will cause you to die and then will bring you back to life. Can any of those whom you associate with Allah in His Divinity! do any such thing? Glory be to Him and exalted be He above whatever they associate with Allah in His Divinity.
And Abraham prayed for his father's forgiveness only because of a promise he had made to him. But when it became clear to him that he was an enemy to Allah, he dissociated himself from him: for Abraham was most tender-hearted, forbearing.
he would certainly have remained inside the fish until the Day of Resurrection.
and drowned the rest.
orbiting, disappearing;
Even if they were to see [this fire] from a distant place, they would only listen to its raging and roaring.
Yes indeed! My Verses did come to you, but you called them lies, turned arrogant, and were of the faithless.
He replied: 'I saw what they did not see and seized a handful of dust from the foot print of the messenger and so I cast it this my soul prompted me to do'
Allah hath promised you abundant spoils that ye shall take, and these He hath hastened to you, and hath restrained the hands of people from you, that it may be a sign Unto the believers, and that He may guide you to a straight path.
On that day man will recall all what he strove for.
And for him who fears to stand before his Lord are two gardens.
We afflicted Pharaoh's people with shortages of food and famine so that they might take heed,
Perhaps our Lord will substitute for us [one] better than it. Indeed, we are toward our Lord desirous."
Therefore turn away from them and wait, surely they too are waiting.
From the evil of what He created.
And your Lord is Forgiving, the Lord of Mercy; were He to punish them for what they earn, He would certainly have hastened the chastisement for them; but for them there is an appointed time from which they shall not find a refuge.
If We had not kept you constant you had almost leaned towards them.
O People who Believe! Fear Allah and forego the remaining usury, if you are Muslims.
Say, "We have believed in Allah and in what was revealed to us and what was revealed to Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, and the Descendants, and in what was given to Moses and Jesus and to the prophets from their Lord. We make no distinction between any of them, and we are Muslims [submitting] to Him."
O you who believe! Do not follow Satan's footsteps. Whoever follows Satan's footsteps - he advocates obscenity and immorality. Were it not for God's grace towards you, and His mercy, not one of you would have been pure, ever. But God purifies whomever He wills. God is All-Hearing, All-Knowing.
Yet they disbelieve therein. Presently they shall come to know.
Had We wished, We would have surely raised him by their means, but he clung to the earth and followed his [base] desires. So his parable is that of a dog: if you make for it, it lolls out its tongue, and if you let it alone, it lolls out its tongue. Such is the parable of the people who deny Our signs. So recount these narratives, so that they may reflect.
And those of your women as have passed the age of monthly courses, for them the 'Iddah (prescribed period), if you have doubts (about their periods), is three months, and for those who have no courses [(i.e. they are still immature) their 'Iddah (prescribed period) is three months likewise, except in case of death]. And for those who are pregnant (whether they are divorced or their husbands are dead), their 'Iddah (prescribed period) is until they deliver (their burdens), and whosoever fears Allah and keeps his duty to Him, He will make his matter easy for him.
"From following me? Didst thou then disobey my order?"
The brothers of Joseph came (to Egypt) and visited him. He recognised them, though they did not recognise him.
In order to benefit you and your cattle.
Allah effaceth what He will, and establisheth (what He will), and with Him is the source of ordinance.
Noah said: My Lord! Lo! they have disobeyed me and followed one whose wealth and children increase him in naught save ruin;
In Gardens, inquiring.
Say: "If there were on the earth, angels walking about in peace and security, We should certainly have sent down for them from the heaven an angel as a Messenger."
The likeness of those who disbelieve is as the likeness of one who shouts to that which hears nothing, save a call and a cry; deaf, dumb, blind -- they do not understand.
And whoever comes with an evil deed - their faces will be overturned into the Fire, [and it will be said], "Are you recompensed except for what you used to do?"
That is because they believed, and then disbelieved; so their hearts were sealed, and they cannot understand.
So We answered him, and gave him John, curing his wife (of sterility). They raced with each other in good works and called on Us out of yearning and awe, and they were humble to Us.
God originates creation, and then will revert it, then you will go back to Him.
Lord, those whom You condemn to enter the Fire You have surely brought to disgrace. Wrongdoers will have no supporters.
Perish the fellows of the ditch,
preaching what they do not practice.
Behold! We said to the angels, "Bow down to Adam": They bowed down except Iblis. He was one of the Jinns, and he broke the Command of his Lord. Will ye then take him and his progeny as protectors rather than Me? And they are enemies to you! Evil would be the exchange for the wrong-doers!
Verily We shall give life to the dead, and We record that which they send before and that which they leave behind, and of all things have We taken account in a clear Book (of evidence).
When your Lord told the angels, "I will create a mortal out of clay,
Let those who dispute Our signs know that there is no escape for them.
and by the night when it recedes,
And to be of those who believe, and urge upon one another to persevere, and urge upon each other to be kind.
Say: "Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger: but if ye turn away, he is only responsible for the duty placed on him and ye for that placed on you. If ye obey him, ye shall be on right guidance. The Messenger's duty is only to preach the clear (Message).
Nay, and by the moon,
We had given him great power in the land and all kinds of resources.
They have taken gods besides Allah, [hoping] that they might be helped [by the fake deities].
(This was Our) way with the messengers We sent before thee: thou wilt find no change in Our ways.
And if any of them should say: "Verily, I am an ilah (a god) besides Him (Allah)," such a one We should recompense with Hell. Thus We recompense the Zalimun (polytheists and wrong-doers, etc.).
And how are they behaving now towards a Book which has come to them from Allah? Inspite of the fact that it confirms the Scriptures which they already possessed. and, inspite of the fact that, before it came, they used to pray for a signal victory over the disbelievers, they rejected it when it came, although they recognized it. May Allah's curse be upon such disbelievers!
Save those on whom Allah shall have mercy; surely He is the Mighty the Merciful.
Then, on the Day of Resurrection, He will disgrace them, and say, 'Where are My "partners" for whose sake you used to defy [Allah]?' Those who were given knowledge will say, 'Indeed today disgrace and distress pursue the faithless.'
And they worship besides Allah that for which He has not sent down authority and that of which they have no knowledge. And there will not be for the wrongdoers any helper.
Nay! surely it is an admonishment.
(He is the) Cleaver of the daybreak. He has appointed the night for resting, and the sun and the moon for reckoning. Such is the measuring of the All-Mighty, the All-Knowing.
His command is only when He intends a thing that He says to it, "Be," and it is.
They seek to extinguish Allah's light (by blowing) with their mouths, but Allah shall spread His light in all its fullness, howsoever the unbelievers may abhor this.
'And I may guide you to your Lord, so that you may fear.'"
Samood gave the lie to the apostles
But [Fir'aun (Pharaoh)] belied and disobeyed;
But if you desire God and His Messenger and the Last Abode, surely God has prepared for those amongst you such as do good a mighty wage.
(Inscribed) in Al-Lauh Al-Mahfuz (The Preserved Tablet)!
I had lots of titanium put in me; cadaver bones, to try to get my feet moving the right way.
"O my sons! Go you and enquire about Yusuf (Joseph) and his brother, and never give up hope of Allah's Mercy. Certainly no one despairs of Allah's Mercy, except the people who disbelieve."
By way of reminder, and We have never been unjust.
As to those who believe not in the Hereafter, We have made their deeds pleasing in their eyes; and so they wander about in distraction.
It took two years that finally my family agreed that my father could reconnect me with women and girls, so they could share their problems and together we could resolve them.
Do not say that those who are killed in the way of God, are dead, for indeed they are alive, even though you are not aware.
In that condition, the correlation was zero -- there was no relationship between the love of Legos, and how much people built, which suggests to me that with this manipulation of breaking things in front of people's eyes, we basically crushed any joy that they could get out of this activity.
Verily, those whom you call upon besides Allah are slaves like you. So call upon them and let them answer you if you are truthful.
The people of Lot impugned the apostles
After this the Pharaoh withdrew and settled his stratagem, then came back.
Then as for him who giveths and feareth Him.
And you were not on the side of the Mount when We called out [to Moses], but [We have sent you as] a mercy from your Lord that you may warn a people to whom there did not come any warner before you, so that they may take admonition.
without adding, "if God wills." Recall your Lord if you forget to do something. Say, "I hope that my Lord will provide me better guidance."
And We saved them and their people from the great affliction,
And recall when the hypocrites and those whose hearts were diseased said: 'Their faith has deluded these (believers). But he who puts his trust in Allah shall find Allah All-Mighty. All-Wise.'
The revelation of the Book, without a doubt, is from the Lord of the Universe.
O Da-ud! verily We have appointed thee a vicegerent in the earth, so judge between mankind with truth, and follow not desire, lest it cause thee to err from the path of Allah. Verily those who err from the path of Allah - Unto them shall be a severe torment, for they forgat the Day of Reckoning.
Indeed, they are kept at bay [even] from hearing it.
Woe to every guilty impostor
who sees you when you stand [for prayer],
And the livestock - He created them for you. In them are warmth and benefits for you, and of them you eat.
"Our Lord, whomever You commit to the Fire, You have disgraced. The wrongdoers will have no helpers."
Know that there is no god but God, and ask forgiveness for your sin, and for the believing men and believing women. God knows your movements, and your resting-place.
That is because they love the life of this world more than the Hereafter; and Allah does not guide those who are ungrateful to Allah for His favours.
And gave a little, then was grudging?
So when he desired to seize him who was an enemy to them both, he said: O Musa! do you intend to kill me as you killed a person yesterday? You desire nothing but that you should be a tyrant in the land, and you do not desire to be of those who act aright.
We shall now make you read (O dear Prophet Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him), so you will not forget.
On the day that He will gather you for the day of gathering, that is the day of loss and gain; and whoever believes in Allah and does good, He will remove from him his evil and cause him to enter gardens beneath which rivers flow, to abide therein forever; that is the great achievement.
(saying): 'We feed you only desirous of the Face of Allah; we seek of you neither recompense nor thanks,
Yet they regard the jinn as the partners of Allah, although He created them, and without knowledge ascribe to Him sons and daughters. Exaltations to Him! He is above what they describe.
Say, "The truth has come, and falsehood can neither begin [anything] nor repeat [it]."
Allah has now lightened your burden for He found weakness in you. So if there be hundred of you who persevere, they shall vanquish two hundred; and if there be a thousand of you they shall, by the leave of Allah, vanquish two thousand. Allah is with those who persevere.
Those who have turned back in their traces after the guidance has become clear to them, Satan it was that tempted them, and God respited them.
Or a treasure should have been sent down to him, or he should have had a garden from which to eat." The wrongdoers say, "You are surely following a man who is bewitched."
"O Zakaria! We give you the glad tidings of a son whose name is Yahya (John) - before him, We have not created anyone of this name."
O mankind, you are those in need of Allah, while Allah is the Free of need, the Praiseworthy.
it and say, "It is only plain magic".
They shall have the abode of peace with their Lord, and He is their guardian because of what they did.
Do not pursue that of which you have no knowledge. Indeed hearing, eyesight, and the heart - all of these are accountable.
"Whoever is an enemy to Allah, and His angels and His Noble Messengers, and Jibreel and Mikaeel (Michael) -, then (know that), Allah is an enemy of the disbelievers."
Lo! as for those who believe and do good works, for them is a reward enduring.
You shall be chosen by your Lord and He will impart to you some understanding of the inner meaning of events. He will bestow the full measure of His blessings upon you and upon the House of Jacob -- even as He formerly bestowed it in full measure upon your forefathers, Abraham and Isaac. Truly, your Sustainer is all-knowing and wise!"
It was We who made it a reminder and a boon for the desert-dwellers.
But maintain the weights with justice, and do not violate the balance.
and the Cry seized them in the morning;
and in the alternation of the night and day, in the provision Allah sends down from heaven with which the earth is revived after its death, and in the changing about of the winds, there are signs for people who understand.
Though all the trees in the earth were pens, and the sea-seven seas after it to replenish it, yet would the Words of God not be spent. God is All-mighty, All-wise.
Those of you who turned away on the day when the two armies met must have been seduced by satan on account of some of what they had earned. But Allah has pardoned them. He is Forgiving and Clement.
Say, "Shall I tell you of those who will lose the most through their actions?
If We had so willed, We could certainly have brought every soul its true guidance: but the Word from Me will come true, "I will fill Hell with Jinns and men all together."
And We did not send before you, [O Muhammad], any of the messengers except that they ate food and walked in the markets. And We have made some of you [people] as trial for others - will you have patience? And ever is your Lord, Seeing.
But no sooner was the punishment withdrawn for a time to enable them to make good their promise than they broke it.
He said, 'My Lord! Respite me till the day they will be resurrected.'
And thou art a freeman of this City;-
and they used to persist in the great sin.
Would that you could see (on the Day of Judgment) that criminals, with their heads hanging down before their Lord, saying, "Our Lord, we have seen and heard. Send us back to act righteously. Now we have strong faith".
It is He who has sent to the illiterate a Messenger from among their own people to recite to them His revelations and purify them. He will teach the Book to them
in which there are valuable Books.
If Allah should return you to a faction of them [after the expedition] and then they ask your permission to go out [to battle], say, "You will not go out with me, ever, and you will never fight with me an enemy. Indeed, you were satisfied with sitting [at home] the first time, so sit [now] with those who stay behind."
Proclaim, "If there were angels walking peacefully on the earth, We would send down only an angel from heaven, as a Noble Messenger towards them."
And surely I fear my cousins after me, and my wife is barren, therefore grant me from Thyself an heir,
And We sent to them a Messenger from among themselves (saying): "Worship Allah! You have no other Ilah (God) but Him. Will you not then be afraid (of Him i.e. of His Punishment because of worshipping others besides Him)?"
Therefore judge Thou between me and them with a (just) judgment, and deliver me and those who are with me of the believers.
Say: The angel of death, who hath charge concerning you, will gather you, and afterward unto your Lord ye will be returned.
Behold, there were brought before him, at eventide coursers of the highest breeding, and swift of foot;
But as for those who are wary of their Lord, for them there will be lofty abodes with [other] lofty abodes built above them, with streams running beneath them - a promise of Allah. Allah does not break His promise.
We shall provide them in abundance with such fruit and meat as they desire.
His is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth; He gives life and causes death; and He has power over all things.
But they turned their backs on him, and went away.
And to rehearse the Qur'an: and if any accept guidance, they do it for the good of their own souls, and if any stray, say: "I am only a Warner".
The holy month for the holy month; holy things demand retaliation. Whoso commits aggression against you, do you commit aggression against him like as he has committed against you, and fear you God, and know that God is with the godfearing.
He said, "This is a mercy from my Lord. But when the promise of my Lord comes true, He will turn it into rubble, and the promise of my Lord is always true."
The Day you shall see it, every nursing mother will forget her nursling, and every pregnant one will drop her load, and you shall see mankind as in a drunken state, yet they will not be drunken, but severe will be the Torment of Allah.
So it shall only be a single cry, when lo! they shall see.
They said, 'O our people! Indeed, we have heard a Book, which has been sent down after Moses, confirming what was before it. It guides to the truth and to a straight path.
O believers, advance not before God and His Messenger; and fear God. God is All-hearing, All-knowing.
And when Moses sought water for his people, so We said, 'Strike with thy staff the rock'; and there gushed forth from it twelve fountains; all the people knew now their drinking-place. 'Eat and drink of God's providing, and mischief not in the earth, doing corruption.'
For these there is hope that Allah will forgive them, and Allah is Ever Oft Pardoning, Oft-Forgiving.
(Those who dispute concerning the signs of God, without any authority come to them, very hateful is that in the sight of God and the believers; 'so God sets a seal on every heart proud', arrogant.)
Those who are faithful to their trusts and pledges.
Or (so that no soul) may say when it beholds the punishment, "If only I may be sent back, so that I may do good deeds!"
except those who have faith and do righteous deeds, and enjoin one another to [follow] the truth, and enjoin one another to patience.
"If Allah touch thee with affliction, none can remove it but He; if He touch thee with happiness, He hath power over all things.
Until you visit the graveyards.
Verily, thus do We reward the Muhsinun (good-doers - see V. 2:112).
We bestowed good upon him in this world, and in the Hereafter he shall certainly be among the righteous.
Beautified is the life of the world for those who disbelieve; they make a jest of the believers. But those who keep their duty to Allah will be above them on the Day of Resurrection. Allah giveth without stint to whom He will.
And they both raced to the door, and she tore his shirt from the back, and they found her husband at the door. She said, "What is the recompense of one who intended evil for your wife but that he be imprisoned or a painful punishment?"
Nay they deny the hour (of the judgment to come): but We have prepared a blazing fire for such as deny the hour:
And He feared not the consequence thereof
And as for the night, keep vigil a part of it, as a work of supererogation for thee; it may be that thy Lord will raise thee up to a laudable station.
But if they break their pledges after their having made a treaty and revile your religion, then fight the leaders of unfaith - indeed, they have no [commitment to] pledges, - maybe they will desist.
And they have no power to give them help, nor can they help themselves.
He it is Who hath appointed for you the night that ye should rest therein and the day giving sight. Lo! herein verily are portents for a folk that heed.
And do not go near the orphan's property, except with the best of intentions, until he has reached his maturity. And honor your pledge, because the pledge involves responsibility.
He has created the heavens and the earth for a genuine purpose. He covers the night with the day and the day with the night and has subdued the sun and the moon, each of which floats for an appointed time. God is certainly Majestic and All-Forgiving.
When the Lote-tree was covered over with what it was covered over;
Allah said: "By no means! proceed then, both of you, with Our Signs; We are with you, and will listen (to your call).
And whosoever does deeds of righteousness, be it male or female, believing - they shall enter Paradise, and not be wronged a single date-spot.
And when it is said to him, "Fear Allah", he is led by arrogance to (more) crime. So enough for him is Hell, and worst indeed is that place to rest!
Every soul will come accompanied by [two angels], a driver, and a witness:
like frightened donkeys
Then We gave the Scripture as inheritance unto those whom We elected of Our bondmen. But of them are some who wrong themselves and of them are some who are lukewarm, and of them are some who outstrip (others) through good deeds, by Allah's leave. That is the great favour!
Among the people is he who says, "We have believed in God." Yet when he is harmed on God's account, he equates the people's persecution with God's retribution. And if help comes from your Lord, he says, "We were actually with you." Is not God aware of what is inside the hearts of the people?
Do not set up with Allah another god, or you will sit condemned and forsaken.
And what will show you what it is?
Throw down thy staff. And when he saw it writhing as it had been a demon, he turned to flee headlong, (and it was said unto him): O Moses! Draw nigh and fear not. Lo! thou art of those who are secure.
Follow the best of what has been sent down from your Lord before the punishment overtakes you suddenly, while you are unaware'
And of them there are some who say: "Our Lord! Give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire!"
[And say, "Ours is] the religion of Allah. And who is better than Allah in [ordaining] religion? And we are worshippers of Him."
For it was he, who had deluded me to reject the Admonition which had come to me. Satan has proved very treacherous to man. "
Shake the trunk of the date-palm tree, and it will drop ripe dates for you.
and clustered bananas,
And every man: We have fastened his action round his neck, and We shall bring forth unto him on the Day of Judgment a book proffered him open.
So Shu'aib left them, saying: "O my people! I did indeed convey to you the messages for which I was sent by my Lord: I gave you good counsel, but how shall I lament over a people who refuse to believe!"
These are the commandments of God We recite to you verily; God does not wish injustice to the creatures of the world.
Hast thou not seen that God created the heavens and the earth in truth? If He will, He can put you away and bring a new creation;
What prevented her (from accepting the True Faith) was her worshipping deities other than Allah, for she belonged to an unbelieving people.
Then they shall roast in Hell,
There they shall hear no idle talk, but only 'Peace.' There they shall have their provision at dawn and evening.
And when We said to the angels: 'Prostrate yourselves before Adam' they all prostrated themselves except iblis, who refused.
all this as provision for you and your cattle.
And the weighing on that day (Day of Resurrection) will be the true (weighing). So as for those whose scale (of good deeds) will be heavy, they will be the successful (by entering Paradise).
to bring thee every cunning sorcerer.'
Those who disbelieved filled their hearts with rage - the rage of the days of ignorance. But God sent His serenity down upon His Messenger, and upon the believers, and imposed on them the words of righteousness - of which they were most worthy and deserving. God is aware of everything.
No indeed; (the fact is that) you deny the Reckoning, declaring it a lie;
God has prepared for them gardens underneath which rivers flow, therein to dwell forever; that is the mighty triumph.
You and all those who you were worshipping, other than Allah, shall be the fuel of Gehenna; there you shall all go down to it.
(As) a Mercy from your Lord. Verily! He is the All-Hearer, the All-Knower.
And (mention) Ishmael, and Idris, and Dhu'l-Kifl. All were of the steadfast.
Surely We have placed chains on their necks, and these reach up to their chins, so they have their heads raised aloft.
But what have they now, that God should not chastise them, when they are barring from the Holy Mosque, not being its protectors? Its only protectors are the godfearing; but most of them know not.
in a sure abode, in the presence of a King Omnipotent.
They will recline upon carpets lined with rich brocade; and the fruits of both these gardens will be within easy reach.
And when a Surah (chapter from the Quran) is revealed, enjoining them to believe in Allah and to strive hard and fight along with His Messenger, the wealthy among them ask your leave to exempt them (from Jihad) and say, "Leave us (behind), we would be with those who sit (at home)."
But those who were unjust changed it for a saying other than that which had been spoken to them, so We sent upon those who were unjust a pestilence from heaven, because they transgressed.
Then Moses went back unto his folk, angry and sad. He said: O my people! Hath not your Lord promised you a fair promise? Did the time appointed then appear too long for you, or did ye wish that wrath from your Lord should come upon you, that ye broke tryst with me?
Moreover, there are two scribes, one each sitting on the right and the left, recording everything.
Say: 'Shall I tell you of a better than that?' For those that are godfearing, with their Lord are gardens underneath which rivers flow, therein dwelling forever, and spouses purified, and God's good pleasure. And God sees His servants
Have they determined upon a course? Then We too are determined.
Woe on that Day unto the belviers-
And I ask of you no hire there for; my hire is but with the Lord of the worlds.
In their hearts is a disease, and Allah increaseth their disease. A painful doom is theirs because they lie.
So where are you heading?
And Allah has brought you out from the wombs of your mothers while you know nothing. And He gave you hearing, sight, and hearts that you might give thanks (to Allah).
being perverse; Gehenna shall be their promised land all together.
The Day that (all) things secret will be tested,
[And Jesus said,] 'Indeed Allah is my Lord and your Lord. So worship Him. This is a straight path.'
The ignorant people say, "Why does not Allah Himself talk to us or why does not a Sign come to us?" The people before them also talked like this, for all (who swerve from the Right Path) have the same mentality. We have already shown clear Signs to those who believe;
The believers are those who believe in God and His Messenger, then have not doubted, and have struggled with their possessions and their selves in the way of God; those -- they are the truthful ones.
by the night when it journeys on!
And those who have no knowledge say: Why doth not Allah speak unto us, or some sign come unto us? Even thus, as they now speak, spake those (who were) before them. Their hearts are all alike. We have made clear the revelations for people who are sure.
Surely there hath come upon man a space of time when he was not a thing worth mentioning.
And that when we heard the guidance, we believed in it; so whoever believes in his Lord, he should neither fear loss nor being overtaken (by disgrace):
So when they had both submitted their wills (to Allah), and he had laid him prostrate on his forehead (for sacrifice),
Whether you reveal something or hid it, God has the knowledge of all things.
Which of the favours of your Lord will you twain - you men and jinn - then deny?
Say: Who giveth you provision from the sky and the earth? Say: Allah, Lo! we or you assuredly are rightly guided or in error manifest.
And no example or similitude do they bring (to oppose or to find fault in you or in this Quran), but We reveal to you the truth (against that similitude or example), and the better explanation thereof.
God has bought from the believers their lives and their wealth in return for the Garden. They fight for the cause of God and they kill and are killed. It is a promise binding on Him in the Torah, the Gospel and the Quran, and who is truer to his promise than God? Rejoice then in the bargain you have made. That is the supreme achievement.
Ethernet connection %d
Say (O Muhammad SAW): "The knowledge (of its exact time) is with Allah only, and I am only a plain warner."
O ye who believe! Remember Allah with much remembrance.
(Remember) when your Lord said to the angels: "Truly, I am going to create man from clay".
Extract archives to the specified folder and quit the program
"He begets not, nor was He begotten;
Establish your prayers, pay the obligatory charity, and bow with those who bow.
And when We shew favour Unto man, he turneth aside and withdraweth on his side, and when evil toucheth him, then he is full of prolonged prayer.
Whatsoever mercy God opens to men, none can withhold and whatsoever He withholds, none can loose after Him. He is the All-mighty, the All-wise.
To Allah belongs the kingdom of the heavens and the earth, and toward Allah is the destination.
When you argued with Moses, saying that you were not going to believe him unless you could see God with your own eyes, the swift wind struck you and you could do nothing but watch.
And when We decreed death for him, nothing showed his death to them save a creeping creature of the earth which gnawed away his staff. And when he fell the jinn saw clearly how, if they had known the Unseen, they would not have continued in despised toil.
O you who believe! Do not befriend disbelievers rather than believers. Do you want to give God a clear case against you?
Soon will their multitude be put to flight, and they will show their backs.
A token unto them is the dead earth. We revive it, and We bring forth from it grain so that they eat thereof;
Reclining on green cushions and fine carpets.
The chiefs of Pharaoh's people said, "Will you let Moses and his people cause trouble in the land, and forsake you and your gods?" He said, "We will kill their sons, and spare their women. We have absolute power over them."
This is indeed the truthful narration. There is no god except Allah. It is Allah who is the Almighty, the Wise.
Naught of disaster befalleth in the earth or in yourselves but it is in a Book before we bring it into being - Lo! that is easy for Allah -
In fact, in our data, grit is usually unrelated or even inversely related to measures of talent.
And the Firmament has He raised high, and He has set up the Balance (of Justice),
(Moses) said: Your tryst shall be the day of the feast, and let the people assemble when the sun hath risen high.
When there comes to them a sign (from Allah), They say: "We shall not believe until we receive one (exactly) like those received by Allah's messengers." Allah knoweth best where (and how) to carry out His mission. Soon will the wicked be overtaken by humiliation before Allah, and a severe punishment, for all their plots.
They said: O Shu'aib! we understanand not much of that which thou sayest, and verily we see thee weak among us, and were it not for thy company we had surely stoned thee, and thou art not among us mighty.
And of us there are some righteous, and of us are some otherwise; we have been following very diverse.
But he turned away with his warlords, and said, "A sorcerer or a madman."
We have sent blessed water down from the sky to grow gardens, harvestable crops
On studded thrones.
And We made the sky a well-protected roof. Still they turn away from His signs!
And when it is said to them, "Follow what Allah has revealed," they say, "Rather, we will follow that upon which we found our fathers." Even if Satan was inviting them to the punishment of the Blaze?
We are now replicating this in a 1.75-million-square-feet building, which will have 60,000 indoor plants.
He said, 'Allah will indeed bring it on you if He wishes, and you cannot frustrate [Him].
And to warn those who say, "God has begotten a son."
But those who fear their Lord will be led in groups towards Paradise. When they reach it, its gate will be opened, and its keepers will say to them, "Peace be upon you. You have done well, enter Paradise and dwell in it forever,"
Now, if you were to turn away, what else can be expected but that you will work corruption in the land and fly at each other's throats?
"Therefore concert your plan, and then assemble in (serried) ranks: He wins (all along) today who gains the upper hand."
And fear Him who created you and the masses of old."
Enter thou My Paradise!'
And if they are asked: 'What has your Lord revealed' they say: 'Tales of the ancients, fairytales'
He was created of a gushing fluid,
They hatched up the plot; We also planned without their knowledge.
And Musa (Moses) said: "O my people! If you have believed in Allah, then put your trust in Him if you are Muslims (those who submit to Allah's Will)."
He who created the heavens and the earth and what is between them in six days and then established Himself above the Throne - the Most Merciful, so ask about Him one well informed.
We have told people various parables in this Quran. Even if you had shown them a miracle, the unbelievers would have said, "You are only the followers of falsehood".
And the Foremost Ones are the foremost ones:
That is their recompense because they disbelieved in Our signs and said, 'What, when we are bones and broken bits, shall we really be raised up again in a new creation?'
Then man will have no power or any helper.
Say to them, "Obey God and His Messenger. If you turn away, the Messenger and the people will each be responsible for their own obligations. If you follow the Messenger, you will have the right guidance. The responsibility of the Messenger is only to preach."
Thus He inspires you, and those before you - God the Almighty, the Wise.
Do they not then see that We have made a sanctuary secure, and that men are being snatched away from all around them? Then, do they believe in that which is vain, and reject the Grace of Allah?
Therefore eat of what Allah has given you, lawful and good (things), and give thanks for Allah's favor if Him do you serve.
Then God sent a raven digging the ground, to show him how to cover his brother's corpse. He said, "Woe to me! I was unable to be like this raven, and bury my brother's corpse." So he became full of regrets.
Hearing of their sly talk the chief's wife sent for those ladies, and arranged for them a banquet, and got ready couches, and gave each guest a knife. Then, while they were cutting and eating the fruit, she signalled Joseph: "Come out to them." When the ladies saw him they were so struck with admiration that they cut their hands, exclaiming: "Allah preserve us. This is no mortal human. This is nothing but a noble angel!"
The day the trumpet blast is sounded whoever is in the heavens and the earth will be terrified, save those whom God please, and all will appear before Him in abjectness.
As for those who have believed and done good works, their Lord will admit them into His Mercy that is a mighty triumph!
(A command will be issued): "Seize him and shackle him,
And direct affairs by command,
Has not there come to you the story of Musa?
I do not ask you any reward for it; my reward lies only with the Lord of all the worlds.
Surely those who say, "Our Lord is God," and remain firm [on that path] shall feel no fear, nor shall they grieve:
That is a nation that has passed away; there awaits them that they have earned, and there awaits you that you have earned; you shall not be questioned concerning the things they did.
So whoever desires more than these two - they are crossing the limits.
All of them committed excesses in their lands,
"(Which yields) no shade of coolness, and is of no use against the fierce Blaze.
Whoever thinks that God will not help him in this life and in the Hereafter - let him turn to heaven, then sever, and see if his cunning eliminates what enrages him.
He has guided one group (of people) and the other group go is doomed to astray; the latter group took Satan as their guardian instead of God and thought that they were rightly guided.
Bring me lumps of iron. Then when he had evened Up between the two mountain-sides, he said: blow! Then when he had made it fire, he said: bring me and I shall pour thereon molten cOpper.
The Day the heaven shall be rent asunder with clouds, and angels shall be sent down, descending (in ranks),-
And there is prohibition upon [the people of] a city which We have destroyed that they will [ever] return
Said He, 'We will strengthen thy arm by means of thy brother, and We shall appoint. to you an authority, so that they shall not reach you because of Our signs; you, and whoso follows you, shall be the victors.'
They used to hew out dwellings from mountains feeling secure.
Say: Our Lord will bring us all together, then He will judge between us with truth. He is the All-knowing Judge.
Say, 'O faithless ones!
(He is) the Lord of the two easts (places of sunrise during early summer and early winter) and the Lord of the two wests (places of sunset during early summer and early winter).
Surely Allah knows the unseen things of the heavens and the earth; and Allah sees what you do.
They said, "O Moses, either you throw, or we will be the first to throw."
It is not bad to give alms in public. However if you give them privately to the poor, it would be better for you and an expiation for some of your sins. God is Well-Aware of what you do.
And they say that such and such cattle and crops are taboo, and none should eat of them except those whom - so they say - We wish; further, there are cattle forbidden to yoke or burden, and cattle on which, (at slaughter), the name of Allah is not pronounced; - inventions against Allah's name: soon will He requite them for their inventions.
and those who set up other gods with Allah, indeed, they will soon know.
Indeed, that is how We deal with the guilty.
What is the matter with you? How do you judge?
He rules (all) affairs from the heavens to the earth: in the end will (all affairs) go up to Him, on a Day, the space whereof will be (as) a thousand years of your reckoning.
Those are the ones brought near [to Allah]
And they will cry out, "O Malik*, ask your Lord to finish us!" He will answer, "Rather you are to stay (forever)." (*The guard of hell)
Everyone on it must pass away.
Say, "Allah [alone] do I worship, sincere to Him in my religion,
If you give alms openly, it is well, and if you hide it and give it to the poor, it is better for you; and this will do away with some of your evil deeds; and Allah is aware of what you do.
"O my people (I fear) lest your opposition to me should bring you the like of what befell the people of Noah or Hud or Saleh; and the people of Lot are not distant from you.
Is he, then, whom We have promised an excellent promise which he is going to meet, like unto him whom We have suffered to enjoy awhile the enjoyment of the life of the world, then on the Day of Resurrection he shall be of those brought up!
Most certainly a Messenger came to them from among them; but they rejected him, calling him a liar. Therefore chastisement seized them while they engaged in wrong-doing.
that We may show you some of Our great signs.
And if ye slide back after the clear proofs have come unto you, then know that Allah is Mighty, Wise.
Have those who deny the truth [not] been paid back for their deeds?
When he came of age, We gave him judgement and [sacred] knowledge, and thus do We reward the virtuous.
And [yet], among the people are those who take other than Allah as equals [to Him]. They love them as they [should] love Allah. But those who believe are stronger in love for Allah. And if only they who have wronged would consider [that] when they see the punishment, [they will be certain] that all power belongs to Allah and that Allah is severe in punishment.
Whoever then alters it after he has heard it, the sin of it then is only upon those who alter it; surely Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
They will be received by the angels of mercy with the greeting, "Peace be with you. Enter Paradise as a reward for your good deeds."
The ignorant have asked, "Why does He not speak to us and why has no evidence come to show us (that He exists)?" People before them had also asked such questions. They all think in the same way. We have already made the evidence very clear for those who have certainty.
He replied, "Did I not tell you that you would never be able to bear with me patiently?"
And indeed We brought to them a Book, which We have explained in detail with a great knowledge - a guidance and a mercy for people who believe.
Verily that which ye are promised is true;
O believers, when proclamation is made for prayer on the Day of Congregation, hasten to God's remembrance and leave trafficking aside; that is better for you, did you but know.
Those same men said, 'God has made covenant with us, that we believe not any Messenger until he brings to us a sacrifice devoured by fire.' Say: 'Messengers have come to you before me bearing clear signs, and that you spoke of; why therefore did you slay them, if you speak truly?'
Had your Lord wanted, He would have made all people one united nation. They still have different beliefs
It was He who restrained their hands from you in the heart of Makkah, and your hands from them, after He had given you victory over them, as God sees all that you do.
And certainly We have set forth to men in this Quran similitudes of every sort that they may mind.
This contending of the inmates of Hell will surely be real.
upon the straight path.
That is because Allah! He is the Truth, because whatsoever they call upon beside Him is falsehood, and because He is the Exalted, the Grand.
Evil is the example of the people who reject Our signs as false and perpetrate wrong against their own selves.
Do not neglect the pursuit of the enemy. If you have suffered, they too have suffered but you can, at least, expect from God what they can never expect. God is All-knowing and All-wise.
"To you be your religion, and to me my religion (Islamic Monotheism)."
And they say, "When will this promise come, if you are truthful?"
Proclaim (O dear Prophet Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him), "O my* slaves, who have wronged themselves, do not lose hope in Allah's mercy; indeed Allah forgives all sins; indeed He only is the Oft Forgiving, the Most Merciful." (All Muslims are truly the slaves of Prophet Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him.)
And those who fear the punishment of their Lord, --
Lest ye should say: the Book was only sent down to the two sects before us, and we in sooth were unaware of their readings.
Would that you could see (on the Day of Judgment) that criminals, with their heads hanging down before their Lord, saying, "Our Lord, we have seen and heard. Send us back to act righteously. Now we have strong faith".
to make the seeds, plants,
(Muhammad), if God afflicts you with hardship, no one besides Him will be able to relieve you. If He bestows a favor on you, know that He has power over all things.
Indeed We created man from sounding clay made out of black smelly mud.
Have not My revelations been rehearsed unto you, and them ye have been belying?
Allah outspreads and restricts His provision to whomsoever He will of His worshipers. Allah has knowledge of all things.
To Him belongs everything in the heavens and everything on earth. God is the Rich, the Praised.
And He hath constrained the night and the day and the sun and the moon to be of service unto you, and the stars are made subservient by His command. Lo! herein indeed are portents for people who have sense.
And We succoured them so that they became overcomers.
We subjugated the chiefs (of tribes) to struggle day and night with him,
She said: When shall I have a boy and no mortal has yet touched me, nor have I been unchaste?
These are the Signs of Allah: We rehearse them to thee in Truth: And Allah means no injustice to any of His creatures.
Relate to them the account of Noah when he said to his people, 'O my people! If my stay [among you] be hard on you and [also] my reminding you of Allah's signs, [for my part] I have put my trust in Allah. So conspire together, along with your partners, leaving nothing vague in your plan, then carry it out against me without giving me any respite.
so that He may know that they have delivered the Messages of their Lord and He encompasses all that is with them, and He has counted everything innumbers'
Those with whom you make an agreement, then they break their agreement every time and they do not guard (against punishment).
Darkness will cover them,
And We inspired the mother of Moosa that, "Suckle him; then when you fear for him, cast him into the river and do not fear nor grieve; We shall indeed return him back to you and make him one of the Noble Messengers."
The nation of Noah, belied their Messengers.
There the believers were tested and tremendously shaken.
He will say: 'I have destroyed a vast wealth'
And Moses said: 'O Pharaoh! I am a Messenger from the Lord of the universe.
or show them to you suffering the torment with which We had threatened them. We are certainly dominant over them all.
And press thy hand to thy side, it will come forth white, without hurt, as anot her sign.
The Day when mankind will stand before the Lord of the worlds?
We inspired Moses and his brother with this Message: "Provide dwellings for your people in Egypt, make your dwellings into places of worship, and establish regular prayers: and give glad tidings to those who believe!"
Has he looked into the unseen, or has he taken from the Most Merciful a promise?
Indeed this day the dwellers of Paradise are in comfort, with blissful hearts.
God has not taken to Himself any son, nor is there any god with Him; for then each god would have taken off that he created and some of them would have risen up over others; glory to be God, beyond that they describe,
And when he brought the truth to them from Us, they said: "Slay the sons of those who believe with him, and spare their women." But the unbelievers' stratagem is bound to fail.
and they shall murmur among themselves: 'You have stayed away but ten (days and nights)'
And assuredly We created you, thereafter We fashioned you, and thereafter We said to the angels: prostrate yourselves before Adam; then they fell prostrate; not so Iblis: he was not of those who fell prostrate.
(Shu'aib) said: "My Lord knows well what you are doing."
and He made them like green blades devoured.
Then wait you for the Day when the sky will bring forth a visible smoke.
And hearkens to (the Command of) its Lord, and it must needs (do so);-
Allah mocketh back at them, and letteth them in their exorbitance wander bewildered.
And when the angels said to Mary: 'Allah has chosen you and purified you. He has chosen you above all women of the worlds.
And where it is said to them: Bow down, they do not bow down.
He knows that which is before them and that which is behind them, and to Allah all matters are returned.
That is for what your hands have put forth [of evil] and because Allah is not ever unjust to His servants."
Did He not make their guile to go astray?
Have We not given him two eyes,
And they say: "The Fire shall not touch us but for a few numbered days:" Say: "Have ye taken a promise from Allah, for He never breaks His promise? or is it that ye say of Allah what ye do not know?"
Every soul shall be paid in full according to what it has done, for He knows well what they did.
in order that Allah will separate the wicked from the good. He will heap the wicked one upon another, and then heap them together and cast them in Gehenna those shall be the losers.
They will murmur among themselves, "You remained not but ten [days in the world]."
No! Their own deeds have cast a veil over their hearts.
The emulous desire of abundance engrosseth you,
In the alternation of night and day, and in all that God has created in the heavens and the earth, there are signs for a God-fearing people.
Whatever misfortune befalls you, it is because of what your hands have earned; and yet He pardons much.
Such is the Paradise which the righteous have been promised: it is watered by running streams: eternal is its fruit, and eternal is its shade. That is the recompense of those who are righteous, but the recompense of those who deny the truth is the Fire.
And a (goodly) number from those of later times.
They said, 'O Dhul Qarnayn! Indeed Gog and Magog are causing disaster in this land. Shall we pay you a tribute on condition that you build a barrier between them and us?'
Did you not see that for Allah prostrate those who are in the heavens and in the earth, and the sun, and the moon, and the stars, and the hills, and the trees, and the beasts, and many among mankind; and there are many upon whom the punishment has been decreed; and he whom Allah disgraces - there is none to give him honour; indeed Allah may do whatever He wills. (Command of Prostration # 6)
Abraham asked, "Are you giving me the glad news of a son in my old age? What reason can you give for such glad news?"
We inspired Moses: "Strike the sea with your staff." Whereupon it parted, and each part was like a huge hill.
The seven heavens glorify Him, and the earth [too], and whoever is in them. There is not a thing but celebrates His praise, but you do not understand their glorification. Indeed, He is all-forbearing, all-forgiving.
Is it about the awesome tiding
He has forbidden you only carrion, blood, and the flesh of swine; also any flesh that is consecrated other than in the name of God. But for one who is driven by necessity, neither craving nor transgressing, it is no sin. For God is forgiving and merciful.
Verily that which ye are promised is true;
Verily God holds the heavens and the earth in position lest they deviate; and if they deviated there will be none to hold them in place, apart from Him He is sagacious and forgiving.
Their call therein is, "Glory be to You, our God." And their greeting therein is, "Peace." And the last of their call is, "Praise be to God, Lord of the Worlds."
They have not revered God properly. God is All-powerful and Majestic.
he surely thought he would never revert.
So the fish swallowed him while he did that for which he blamed himself
They will not help you against God in any way. The wrongdoers are allies of one another, while God is the Protector of the righteous.
(This) shall not be in accordance with your vain desires nor in accordance with the vain desires of the followers of the Book; whoever does evil, he shall be requited with it, and besides Allah he will find for himself neither a guardian nor a helper.
and during the night prostrate ourself before Him, and extol His glory for a long part of the night.
God has reserved for hypocrites, whether men or women, and for unbelievers, the fire of Hell, where they will abide for ever. This is sufficient for them: They have God's condemnation and lasting torment,
Nay, but We hurl the true against the false, and it doth break its head and lo! it vanisheth. And yours will be woe for that which ye ascribe (unto Him).
Say: Had there been in the earth angels walking about as settlers, We would certainly have sent down to them from the heaven an angel as an apostle.
It is a tree that grows from the bottom of Hell;
Verily, those who dispute about the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) of Allah, without any authority having come to them, there is nothing else in their breasts except pride [to accept you (Muhammad SAW) as a Messenger of Allah and to obey you]. They will never have it (i.e. Prophethood which Allah has bestowed upon you). So seek refuge in Allah (O Muhammad SAW from the arrogants). Verily, it is He Who is the All-Hearer, the All-Seer.
Have they not traveled through the land and observed how was the end of those who were before them? They were greater than them in strength and in impression on the land, but Allah seized them for their sins. And they had not from Allah any protector.
And (how) We have spread the earth, and placed mountains as anchors in it, and have grown all kinds of beautiful pairs in it?
A Book revealed to you-- so let there be no straitness in your breast on account of it-- that you may warn thereby, and a reminder close to the believers.
A sign for them is the dead earth, which We revive and bring forth grain out of it, so they eat of it.
Lo! I fear for you the retribution of an awful day.
So make no haste against them; We only count out to them a (limited) number (of the days of the life of this world and delay their term so that they may increase in evil and sins).
They said: "We were oppressed before you came, and have been since you have come to us." He answered: "It may well be that soon God may destroy your enemy and make you inherit the land, and then see how you behave."
Whatever you are promised will inevitably come true and you can do nothing to prevent it.
They wish that you should disbelieve as they disbelieve, and then you would be equal; therefore take not to yourselves friends of them, until they emigrate in the way of God; then, if they turn their backs, take them, and slay them wherever you find them; take not to yourselves any one of them as friend or helper
"This is the recompense of what your hands have sent ahead and Allah does not oppress the bondmen."
And the evils that they earned will appear unto them, and that whereat they used to scoff will surround them.
Nay, but they cry lies to the Hour; and We have prepared for him who cries lies to the Hour a Blaze.
Darkness shall cover them.
And if We had willed, We could have given every soul its guidance, but the word from Me will come into effect [that] "I will surely fill Hell with jinn and people all together.
And We made the House a focal point for the people, and a sanctuary. Use the shrine of Abraham as a place of prayer. And We commissioned Abraham and Ishmael, "Sanctify My House for those who circle around it, and those who seclude themselves in it, and those who kneel and prostrate."
And a tongue, and a pair of lips?-
everlasting gardens that they shall enter; the gardens beneath which rivers shall flow, and where they shall have whatever they desire! Thus does Allah reward the God-fearing,
"Except our first death, and that we shall not be punished?"
The best among them said, "Did I not tell you, 'Why do you not proclaim His purity?'"
But when We did remove from them the terror for a term which they must reach, behold! they broke their covenant.
We have assigned them companions who make their present [conduct] and future [state] seem decorous to them, and the word became due against them along with the nations of jinn and humans that passed away before them. They were indeed losers.
But if We loose a wind, and they see it growing yellow, they remain after that unbelievers.
Those who fear Allah, when a thought of evil from Satan assaults them, bring Allah to remembrance, when lo! they see (aright)!
And the Muslim men and Muslim women are the friends of one another; enjoining right and forbidding wrong, and keeping the prayer established and paying the obligatory charity, obeying Allah and His Noble Messenger; these are upon whom Allah will soon have mercy; indeed Allah is the Almighty, the Wise.
(From) the Lord of the heavens and the earth, and whatsoever is in between them, the Most Beneficent, none can dare to speak with Him (on the Day of Resurrection except after His Leave).
And if you do not, then be informed of a war [against you] from Allah and His Messenger. But if you repent, you may have your principal - [thus] you do no wrong, nor are you wronged.
and indeed he is [himself] witness to that!
If ye lend Unto Allah a goodly loan, He will multiply it Unto you and will forgive you; and Allah is Appreciator, Forbearing.
a bounty from thy Lord; that is the mighty triumph.
"Or (lest) it should say: 'If only Allah had guided me, I should certainly have been among the righteous!'-
And one shank is entangled with the other shank.
And even if We opened unto them a gate of heaven and they kept mounting through it,
O People who Believe! Fear Allah and forego the remaining usury, if you are Muslims.
Both gardens would yield fruits to their fullest capacity. Whatever was produced belonged to him. To his friend he exclaimed, "I have more wealth and greater man-power than you."
The sound of silence.
Seeking no favor in return.
They cried, "Woe to us, we were indeed unjust!"
And when thou beholdest them, their persons please thee: and if they speak, thou listenest to their discourse; they are as though they were blocks of wood propped up. They deem every shout to be against them. They are the enemy; so beware of them. Perish them Allah! whither are they deviating!
And drowned the rest of them.
Tempered with love, of course, honesty is a great thing.
To all the Messengers that were sent before you We revealed that I am the only God to be worshipped.
Moses said: "Do not take me to task at my forgetfulness, and do not be hard on me."
Who observes you when you rise (to pray)
Therefore publicly announce what you are commanded, and turn away from the polytheists.
It is Allah who made for you the grazing animals upon which you ride, and some of them you eat.
[To them] it will be said, "Enter the gates of Hell to abide eternally therein, and wretched is the residence of the arrogant."
O My worshipers, there is no fear for you on this Day, nor will you grieve
Indeed, I fear my kinsmen who will succeed me, for my wife is barren. Grant me a kinsman
In boiling water; then in the Fire they will be filled [with flame].
Said Firaun to the court members around him, "He is indeed an expert magician."
Or have they taken gods besides Him? Say, [O Muhammad], "Produce your proof. This [Qur'an] is the message for those with me and the message of those before me." But most of them do not know the truth, so they are turning away.
O my father! Lo! there hath come unto me of knowledge that which came not unto thee. So follow me, and I will lead thee on a right path.
What! You enjoin righteousness upon people while you forget (to practise it) yourselves, whereas you read the Book? Do you not have sense?
He knows what is in the heavens and the earth, and knows what you conceal and what you disclose. Allah even knows what lies hidden in the breasts of people.
This indeed is an unjust division!
"Eat and drink with pleasure - the reward of what you sent ahead, in the past days."
O you who believe, do not follow in the footsteps of Satan, and whoever follows in the footsteps of Satan should know that he enjoins only indecency and evil. But for the grace of God and His mercy upon you, not one of you would ever be purified; but God purifies whom He pleases. God is all hearing and all knowing.
Till, when he came between the two mountains, he found upon their hither side a folk that scarce could understand a saying.
those who are niggardly and bid others to be niggardly. And he who turns away, (should know that) Allah is Self-Sufficient, Immensely Praiseworthy.
(Some) people considered the jinn to be equal to God even though God created them and they unknowingly ascribed to Him children, both boys and girls. God is too glorious to have the attributes which they ascribe to Him.
As such We recompense the gooddoers.
Theirs shall be everlasting Gardens which the Most Compassionate Lord has promised His servants in a realm which is beyond the ken of perception. Surely His promise shall he fulfilled.
And the thing she used to worship instead of Allah prevented her; she was indeed from the disbelieving people.
Maryam! be devout unto thy Lord, prostrate thyself, and bow down with them that bow down.
Lo! herein verily are portents, for lo! We are ever putting (mankind) to the test.
a chastisement that shall come upon them on the Day when Allah will raise them all to a new life and will inform them of their deeds. Allah has recorded it all while they have forgotten it. Allah is a witness over everything.
They will not hear therein any meaningless words. They will be greeted (by the angels) with "Peace be with you," and they will receive their sustenance both in the mornings and evenings.
and sent down abundant water from the clouds
How many favours of your Lord will you then deny?
and a tree that grows on Mount Sinai, which produces oil and a seasoning for those who eat.
on that Day each will be occupied with his own business, making him oblivious of all save himself.
Crying: Woe upon us! Who hath raised us from our place of sleep? This is that which the Beneficent did promise, and the messengers spoke truth.
Then the end of those who committed evil was evil, for they belied the signs of Allah and they were wont to mock at them.
Surely I shall torment him with a severe torment, or I shall slaughter him, unless he bringeth unto me a warranty manifest.
Have We sent down to them any authority which might assert what they associate with Him?
When your children reach puberty, let them ask leave, as those before them asked leave. So God makes clear to you His signs; and God is All-knowing, All-wise.
That over which they are in disagreement.
The only reasons why their contributions are not accepted are: that they reject Allah and His Messenger; that they come to prayer without earnestness; and that they offer contributions unwillingly.
When Joseph said to his father, 'Father! I saw eleven planets, and the sun and the moon: I saw them prostrating themselves before me,'
Have they chosen, other than Allah, to intercede for them? Say: 'What, even though they have no power at all, nor understanding'
Thou askest them no fee for it. It is naught else than a reminder unto the peoples.
And verily we have written in the Scripture, after the Reminder: My righteous slaves will inherit the earth:
Has he invented about Allah a lie or is there in him madness?" Rather, they who do not believe in the Hereafter will be in the punishment and [are in] extreme error.
And whatsoever ye give in gift in order that it may increase among the substance of men increaseth not with Allah; and whatsoever ye give in poor-rate seeking the countenance of Allah-then those: they shall, have increase manifold.
Or say they: There is a madness in him? Nay, but he bringeth them the Truth; and most of them are haters of the Truth.
And so when We recite it, follow its recitation attentively;
and the life of ease in which they took delight!
until We opened upon them the door of a severe chastisement. Then lo, in this state they become utterly despaired of any good.
It is not (attributable to) Allah that He should lead a people astray after He has guided them; He even makes clear to them what they should guard against; surely Allah knows all things.
This is guidance; and (as for) those who disbelieve in the communications of their Lord, they shall have a painful punishment on account of uncleanness.
Then there encompassed it a visitation from your Lord while they were sleeping.
O ye who believe! Fasting is prescribed for you, even as it was prescribed for those before you, that ye may ward off (evil);
And they will say, "Had we listened or understood, we would not have been among the people of hell."
So stand thou straight as thou hast been commanded, thou and whosoever repented with thee; and be not arrogant; verily He is of that which ye work Beholder.
But God shall not turn towards those who do evil deeds until, when one of them is visited by death, he says, 'Indeed now I repent,' neither to those who die disbelieving; for them We have prepared a painful chastisement.
Say thou: with Allah resteth the argument evident. Wherefore, had He so willed, He would have guided you all.
Certainly We have brought you the truth, but most of you are averse to the truth.
In gulps will he sip it, but never will he be near swallowing it down his throat: death will come to him from every quarter, yet will he not die: and in front of him will be a chastisement unrelenting.
no food for them but cactus thorn
Say, "Shall I seek a lord other than God, while He is the Lord of all things?" Everyone must bear the consequence of what he does, and no bearer of a burden can bear the burden of another. Then to your Lord you will return, and He will inform you of what you used to dispute about.
If you are true indeed to this covenant, why do you not believe in God, when His Messenger invites you to believe in your Lord with whom you have made a solemn covenant?
The fornicator does not marry except a [female] fornicator or polytheist, and none marries her except a fornicator or a polytheist, and that has been made unlawful to the believers.
If you ask them: 'Who has created the heavens and the earth and subjected the sun and the moon' They will say: 'Allah' How perverted they are!
even though every sign were to come to them, until they sight the painful punishment.
Say: Allah I worship, making my religion pure for Him (only).
They shall be the nearest to God.
In response Noah was told: 'Most certainly he is not of your family; verily he is of unrighteous conduct. So do not ask of Me for that concerning which you have no knowledge. I admonish you never to act like the ignorant ones.
When we are dead and have become dust and bones, are we indeed going to be requited?
But if ye do it not, --and by no means ye shall, --then dread the Fire, the fuel whereof is men and stones, gotten ready for the infidels.
So how were My punishment and My warnings?
and the mountains will be set in motion and become a mirage.
Surely the pious shall drink of a cup whose mixture is camphor,
But if they deny you, say, 'Your Lord is dispenser of an all-embracing mercy, but His punishment will not be averted from the guilty lot.'
So did (Allah) convey the inspiration to His Servant- (conveyed) what He (meant) to convey.
And those who fear the punishment of their Lord, --
In the earth are signs for those who have conviction,
And they have been persisting in the heinous offence.
That it is He Who granteth Death and Life;
Living there for ever, they shall neither find a guardian nor a helper.
Then, no! They are going to know.
I am for you a faithful Messenger,
He will ask his companion, "Did you not say that there would only be one death
Those that believe not in the signs of God, God will not guide; there awaits them a painful chastisement.
And he that will be given his Record in his left hand, will say: "Ah! Would that my Record had not been given to me!
She did this on the "Larry King Live" show on CNN six and a half years ago.
So they kept saying this until We made them cut off, extinguished.
And We did not send any Noble Messenger before you, but We divinely revealed to him that, "There is no God except I (Allah), therefore worship Me alone."
But they turned away (from Allah), and We sent against them the Flood (released) from the dams, and We converted their two garden (rows) into "gardens" producing bitter fruit, and tamarisks, and some few (stunted) Lote-trees.
That would skin the scalp.
It was only one Shout and they were silent, still.
O ye who believe! When ye consult the Messenger in private, spend something in charity before your private consultation. That will be best for you, and most conducive to purity (of conduct). But if ye find not (the wherewithal), Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Both the vineyards yielded abundant produce without failure and We caused a stream to flow in their midst
They question you concerning the Hour, when will it set in? Say, 'Its knowledge is only with my Lord: none except Him shall manifest it at its time. It will weigh heavy on the heavens and the earth. It will not overtake you but suddenly.' They ask you as if you were in the know of it. Say, 'Its knowledge is only with Allah, but most people do not know.'
A lying, sinful forelock!
but when he came to them with Our signs, they ridiculed them,
"Take with your hand a bundle, and strike with it, and do not break your oath." We found him patient. What an excellent servant! He was obedient.
as often as they desire in their anguish to come forth from it, they shall be restored into it, and: 'Taste the chastisement of the burning!'
That is because they made a breach with God and His Messenger; and whosoever makes a breach with God, God is terrible in retribution.
Allah turned with favour to the Prophet, the Muhajirs, and the Ansar,- who followed him in a time of distress, after that the hearts of a part of them had nearly swerved (from duty); but He turned to them (also): for He is unto them Most Kind, Most Merciful.
Marry those among you who are single, and those of your male and female slaves who are fit [for marriage]. If they are poor, God will provide for them from His bounty, for God's bounty is infinite and He is all knowing.
We shall certainly test you until We know those who strive hard for the cause of God and those who exercise patience. We will also examine your deeds.
So you and whosoever repents with you go straight as you have been commanded and do not be insolent, indeed, He sees what you do.
Such is God's commandment. Whoever honours that which is declared sacred by God may be sure that it counts for good in the sight of his Lord. Livestock is lawful for you, except that which has already been explicitly forbidden. Then shun the abomination of the deities and shun all falsehood.
and we cried lies to the Day of Doom,
neither cool, neither goodly;
How many favours of your Lord will then both of you deny?
On the Day when We gather them all together We shall say to the idolaters: 'Where are your partners now, those whom you claimed'
He said: 'They shall be forbidden this land for forty years, during which time they shall wander (homeless) on the earth. Do not grieve for these wicked people.'
We guided him to the way, be he appreciative or unappreciative.
Do they say, 'He has fabricated a lie against Allah'? If so, should Allah wish He would set a seal on your heart, and Allah will efface the falsehood and confirm the truth with His words. Indeed He knows well what is in the breasts.
"And that ye should worship Me, (for that) this was the Straight Way?
Those are the ones whom Allah has cursed; and he whom Allah curses - never will you find for him a helper.
No, rather, we have been prevented'
but the reprobates will turn away
(Remember) when you sought help of your Lord and He answered you (saying): "I will help you with a thousand of the angels each behind the other (following one another) in succession."
He said, "Have you considered what you worship.
And other Penalties of a similar kind, to match them!
Indeed they came near to unsettling you, so that they might expel you from the land, but in that case they themselves would not have stayed on for very long after you.
So observe the effects of the mercy of Allah - how He gives life to the earth after its lifelessness. Indeed, that [same one] will give life to the dead, and He is over all things competent.
And remember Allah in the counted days; so whoever hastens by departing in two days, there is no sin on him; and whoever stays on, there is no sin for him - for the pious; and keep fearing Allah, and know well that it is to Him you will be raised.
To every nation a term; when their term comes they shall not delay it by a single hour, nor yet hasten it.
Pharaoh asked: "Then, what is the state of the former generations?"
Look! How they lie against themselves! But the (lie) which they invented will disappear from them.
[As] enjoyment for you and your grazing livestock.
O Zakariya! surely We give you good news of a boy whose name shall be Yahya: We have not made before anyone his equal.
"And what is that in the right hand, O Moses?"
Then He lifted Himself to heaven when it was smoke, and said to it and to the earth, "Come willingly, or unwillingly!" They said, "We come willingly."
unto a mighty day
When the mountains are set in motion.
How is it with you, that you expend not in the way of God, and to God belongs the inheritance of the heavens and the earth? Not equal is he among you who spent, and who fought before the victory; those are mightier in rank than they who spent and fought afterwards; and unto each God has promised the reward most fair; and God is aware of the things you do.
And his people came to him, (as if) rushed on towards him, and already they did evil deeds. He said: O my people! these are my daughters-- they are purer for you, so guard against (the punishment of) Allah and do not disgrace me with regard to my guests; is there not among you one right-minded man?
Their Lord, on that Day, is fully informed of them.
Hell! Where they will burn, and worst (indeed) is that place to rest!
What you have runs out, but what is with God remains. We will reward those who are patient according to the best of their deeds.
To test them with it. Whoever turns away from the remembrance of his Lord, He will direct him to torment ever mounting.
Those who, when they have to receive by measure from men, exact full measure,
But nay! I swear by that which you see,
If you find that no one is in, then do not enter unless you have received permission. If you are asked to go away, turn back. That is proper for you. God is aware of what you do.
O People who Believe! Do not advance ahead of Allah and His Noble Messenger, and fear Allah; indeed Allah is All Hearing, All Knowing.
Be tolerant; enjoin what is right; and avoid the ignorant.
On the Day when Allah will raise them all from the dead they will swear before Him as they swear before you today, thinking that this will avail them. Behold, they are utter liars.
Thus the word of your Lord has come into effect upon those who defiantly disobeyed - that they will not believe.
He said, 'O my people! Have you considered, should I stand on a manifest proof from my Lord, who has provided me a good provision from Himself? I do not wish to oppose you by what I forbid you. I only desire to put things in order, as far as I can, and my success lies only with Allah: in Him I have put my trust, and to Him I turn penitently.
Nay,-whoever submits His whole self to Allah and is a doer of good,- He will get his reward with his Lord; on such shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
He said: "Know ye how ye dealt with Joseph and his brother, not knowing (what ye were doing)?"
And to many a township did I give respite although they were oppressors; then I seized them; and towards Me is the return.
They (the hypocrites) will present their excuses to you (Muslims), when you return to them. Say (O Muhammad SAW) "Present no excuses, we shall not believe you. Allah has already informed us of the news concerning you. Allah and His Messenger will observe your deeds. In the end you will be brought back to the All-Knower of the unseen and the seen, then He (Allah) will inform you of what you used to do." [Tafsir At-Tabari]
As for the fornicatress and the fornicator, strike each of them a hundred lashes, and let not pity for them overcome you in Allah's law, if you believe in Allah and the Last Day, and let their punishment be witnessed by a group of the faithful.
Proclaim, "Who guards you night and day from the Most Gracious?" In fact they have turned away from the remembrance of their Lord.
And therefore, O Muslims, judge between them according to what is sent down by Allah, and do not follow their desires, and be cautious of them so that they may not divert you from some commands which have been sent down to you; then if they turn away, know that Allah's will is to punish them for some of their sins; and indeed many men are disobedient.
Every soul that hath sinned, if it possessed all that is on earth, would fain give it in ransom: They would declare (their) repentance when they see the penalty: but the judgment between them will be with justice, and no wrong will be done unto them.
Give not, thinking to gain greater
Then eat of all the fruits, and go along the pathways of your Lord, with precision. From their bellies emerges a fluid of diverse colors, containing healing for the people. Surely in this is a sign for people who reflect.
And Moosa said, "O my people! If you have accepted faith in Allah, then you should rely only upon Him, if you are Muslims."
And who will cause me to die and then bring me to life
Which then of the bounties of your Lord will you deny?
And I have followed the creed of my fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Not ours is it to associate aught with God. That is of God's bounty to us, and to men; but most men are not thankful.
And how many a prophet We sent among the ancients.
And they make the angels who are the bondmen of the Compassionate females. Have they witnessed their creation? Their testimony will be written down, and they will be questioned.
And be not like those who forgot Allah and so He made them oblivious of themselves. They are the wicked ones.
The king said, "I saw [in a dream] seven fat cows which seven lean ones were eating, also seven green ears of corn and seven others which were dry. Tell me the meaning of this vision, my nobles, if you can interpret visions."
And We rescued him and his family from the great distress (i.e. drowning),
We took the covenant of the Children of Israel and sent them messengers, every time, there came to them a messenger with what they themselves desired not - some (of these) they called impostors, and some they (go so far as to) slay.
And when they are cast into a narrow place in it, bound, they shall there call out for destruction.
And indeed, among the People of the Scripture are those who believe in Allah and what was revealed to you and what was revealed to them, [being] humbly submissive to Allah. They do not exchange the verses of Allah for a small price. Those will have their reward with their Lord. Indeed, Allah is swift in account.
They said: "Even so says your Lord. Verily, He is the All-Wise, the All-Knower."
We have sent down to you a Book which has a reminder for you. Do you not understand?
The Thamud and the 'Ad People (branded) as false the Stunning Calamity!
He said: "O my people! Is then my family of more weight with you than Allah? And you have cast Him away behind your backs. Verily, my Lord is surrounding all that you do.
And verily We have displayed for mankind in this Qur'an all kind of similitudes, but most of mankind refuse aught save disbelief.
and not be recompensed, except according to what you were doing.'
On this day I have given them their reward for their exercising patience and it is they who have triumphed."
who fear their unseen Lord and are anxious about the Day of Judgment.
It was but one Shout, and lo! they were extinct.
And recite what is rehearsed to you in your homes, of the Signs of Allah and His Wisdom: for Allah understands the finest mysteries and is well-acquainted (with them).
Nothing is (incumbent) on the Apostle but to deliver (the message), and Allah knows what you do openly and what you hide.
If We had commanded them to lay down their lives and to go forth from their homes, only a few would have obeyed; though had they followed what they had been commanded it would surely have been good for them and the strengthening of their faith.
We gave its understanding to Solomon, and to each We gave judgement and knowledge. We disposed the mountains and the birds to glorify [Us] with David, and We have been the doer [of these things].
it is still there on the highway --
You may worship what you will apart from Him." Say: "Surely the greatest losers will be those who will lose their own selves and their people on the Day of Resurrection." Remember, this will be an all-too-evident loss.
Moses said to his people, "Remember God's blessings upon you, as He delivered you from the people of Pharaoh, who inflicted on you terrible suffering, slaughtering your sons while sparing your daughters. In that was a serious trial from your Lord."
and for their saying, 'We killed the Messiah, Jesus son of Mary, the apostle of Allah' - though they did not kill him nor did they crucify him, but so it was made to appear to them. Indeed those who differ concerning him are surely in doubt about him: they do not have any knowledge of that beyond following conjectures, and certainly, they did not kill him.
That is their attainment of knowledge. Surely thy Lord knows very well those who have gone astray from His way, and He knows very well those who are guided.
O People of the Book! Why do you confound the truth with falsehood, and knowingly conceal the truth?
They question you concerning the Spirit. Say, 'The Spirit is of the command of my Lord, and you have not been given of the knowledge except a few [of you].'
When the magicians arrived, they said to Pharaoh, "Is there a reward for us, if we are the winners?"
And let them fear, those who, if they would themselves leave behind helpless offspring, they would surely have been fearful on their account. Let them, then, fear Allah and make the right statement.
And We sent not an apostle but with the speech of his people that he might expound unto them. Then Allah sendeth astray whomsoever He will, and guideth whomsoever He will. And He is the Mighty, the Wise.
All those who are in the heavens and the earth ask of Him; every moment He is in a state (of glory).
"Allah - there is no True God except Him, the Owner of the Great Throne." (Command of Prostration # 8)
And the farmer says, "Good or bad, hard to say."
When it became dark at night, he (Abraham) saw a star and said, "This is my lord." But when it disappeared, he said, "I do not love those who fade away".
In it are fruits and date-palms with sheaths,
Indeed in that is a sign, but most of them were not to be believers.
The Lord ordered Satan to get out (of Paradise) saying, "This is no place for you to be proud. Get out of this place, for you are worthless".
If Allah had desired to take a son, He would have chosen whatever He willed out of His creation. Exaltations to Him! He is Allah, the One, the Conqueror.
And they brought his shirt with false blood. He said: nay! your selves have embellished for you an affair; so seemly patience! and Allah is to be implored for help in that which ye ascribe
But those among them who are firm in knowledge and who have faith, believe in what is sent down upon you (O dear Prophet Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him), and what was sent down before you, and those who keep the prayer established and those who pay the charity, and those who believe in Allah and the Last Day; to such, We shall soon bestow a great reward.
We glorify God."
Those who buy unbelief at the price of faith, they will nothing hurt God; and there awaits them a painful chastisement.
But those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations are the people of Hell.
"And O my people! Seek forgiveness from your Lord, then incline towards Him in repentance - He will send abundant rain from the sky upon you and will give you much more strength than you have - and do not turn away committing crimes!"
And when We give mankind the taste of mercy after some hardship which had afflicted them, they immediately start conspiring against Our signs; proclaim, "The secret plan of Allah is the fastest"; indeed Our angels record your scheming.
And if any of your wives deserts you to the Unbelievers, and ye have an accession (by the coming over of a woman from the other side), then pay to those whose wives have deserted the equivalent of what they had spent (on their dower). And fear Allah, in Whom ye believe.
Yet when the truth came to them 'from Ourselves, they said, 'Why has he not been given the like' of that Moses was given?' But they, did they not disbelieve also in what Moses was given aforetime? They said, 'A pair of sorceries mutually supporting each other.' They said, 'We disbelieve both.'
no Prophet came to them except that they mocked him,
We said, 'O Adam! This is indeed an enemy of yours and your mate's. So do not let him expel you from paradise, or you will be miserable.
And We gave him good in this world, and in the next he will most surely be among the good.
When their brother Noah said unto them: Will ye not ward off (evil)?
However, God encompassed their activities.
Then fight in the cause of Allah, and know that Allah Heareth and knoweth all things.
The seal thereof will be Musk: And for this let those aspire, who have aspirations:
Those who spend their wealth in the Cause of Allah, and do not follow up their gifts with reminders of their generosity or with injury, their reward is with their Lord. On them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
or take admonition, and the admonition would benefit him!
Those unto whom men said: Lo! the people have gathered against you, therefor fear them. (The threat of danger) but increased the faith of them and they cried: Allah is Sufficient for us! Most Excellent is He in Whom we trust!
and no sincere friend.
We have sent you with the Truth to proclaim good news and to warn. Never has there been a nation but a warner came to it.
Thus has He revealed to you, [O Muhammad], and to those before you - Allah, the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
To this world and the Hereafter. And they ask you about orphans. Say, "Improvement for them is best. And if you mix your affairs with theirs - they are your brothers. And Allah knows the corrupter from the amender. And if Allah had willed, He could have put you in difficulty. Indeed, Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise.
In their stories is surely a lesson to men possessed of minds; it is not a tale forged, but a confirmation of what is before it, and a distinguishing of every thing, and a guidance, and a mercy to a people who believe.
No Laghw (dirty, false, evil vain talk) will they hear therein, nor any sinful speech (like backbiting, etc.).
This (I have done) so that he will know I did not secretly betray him, and that Allah does not guide the guile of the treacherous.
And his people's only answer was to say, "Expel them from your town; they are purist people."
They shall have a good share from what they have earned. God is swift in His reckoning.
Knowing all what you may do.
On that day, We will let them surge on one another, and the Horn shall be blown, and We will gather them all together.
They shall have whatsoever they will with their Lord; that is the recompense of the good-doers,
And the heaven will split asunder - so on that day it will be unstable.
What We are sending down in the course of revealing the Qur'an is a healing and a grace for those who have faith; but it adds only to the ruin of the wrong-doers.
Whoever is guided is guided only for [the good of] his own soul, and whoever goes astray, goes astray only to its detriment. No bearer shall bear another's burden. We do not punish [any community] until We have sent [it] an apostle.
Then, when he saw the moon rising, he said, "This is my lord." But when it set, he said, "If my Lord does not guide me, I will be one of the erring people."
Say thou: become ye stones or iron.
He who cures me when I am ill;
We will tell them with absolute certainty (what they had done) for We had never been absent from them (during their lifetime).
And never did thy Lord destroy the townships, till He had raised up in their mother(-town) a messenger reciting unto them Our revelations. And never did We destroy the townships unless the folk thereof were evil-doers.
The day when He shall gather you unto the Day of Assembling, that will be a day of mutual disillusion. And whoso believeth in Allah and doeth right, He will remit from him his evil deeds and will bring him unto Gardens underneath which rivers flow, therein to abide for ever. That is the supreme triumph.
They who disbelieve and deny our Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) are those who will be the dwellers of the Hell-fire.
It's that they have violated the very definition of leadership.
And if God visits thee with affliction, none can remove it but He; and if He desires any good for thee, none can repel His bounty; He causes it to fall upon whomsoever He will of His servants." He is the All-forgiving, the All-compassionate.'
They said, "But we have come to you with that about which they were disputing,
Verily, We have sent you (O Muhammad Peace be upon him) with the truth (Islam), a bringer of glad tidings (for those who believe in what you brought, that they will enter Paradise) and a warner (for those who disbelieve in what you brought, they will enter the Hell-fire). And you will not be asked about the dwellers of the blazing Fire.
In fact, they have rejected the truth that has come to them, thus, they live in confusion.
Every soul shall taste death. We will try you with a trial of evil and good. Then, to Us you shall be returned.
If you call upon them, they cannot hear your prayer. And if they hear it, they cannot answer it. On the Day of Resurrection they will disown you for associating others with Allah in His Divinity. No one can inform you of the truth save the All-Aware.
Those are their empty houses which We ruined because of their injustice. In this there is evidence (of the truth) for the people of knowledge.
Those who are misers and preach miserliness to others, and hide what Allah has bestowed upon them from His munificence; and We have kept ready a disgraceful punishment for the disbelievers.
Which has several gates, and each gate is marked for every section of them."
They will say, 'To Allah.' Say, 'Will you not then take admonition?'
I do not serve that which you serve,
And when We made a covenant with you: You shall not shed your blood and you shall not turn your people out of your cities; then you gave a promise while you witnessed.
He is only a madman, so, as far as he is concerned wait for a while."
Say: "No one in the heavens and the earth has knowledge of the unknown except God, nor can they know when they will be raised again.
even though each sign We showed them was greater than the previous one. We afflicted them with torment so that they might return [to the right path].
Indeed, mankind is in loss,
When God's word is justly carried out against them, We will produce a dabbah from the earth which will tell them that mankind had no real faith in Our signs.
Of the signs for them is how We separated the day from the night and thus they remained in darkness;
O ye who believe! Turn to Allah with sincere repentance: In the hope that your Lord will remove from you your ills and admit you to Gardens beneath which Rivers flow,- the Day that Allah will not permit to be humiliated the Prophet and those who believe with him. Their Light will run forward before them and by their right hands, while they say, "Our Lord! Perfect our Light for us, and grant us Forgiveness: for Thou hast power over all things."
Indeed those who have faith, do righteous deeds, maintain the prayer and give the zakat, they shall have their reward near their Lord, and they will have no fear, nor will they grieve.
O Children of Israel, remember My blessing which I bestowed upon you, and fulfill My covenant that I may fulfill your covenant, and be in awe of Me [alone].
Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny?
They say, "Our hearts are covered against and our ears are deaf to whatever you (Muhammad) invite us to. There is a barrier between us and you. So act as you please and we shall act as we please".
And whoever contradicts and opposes the Messenger (Muhammad SAW) after the right path has been shown clearly to him, and follows other than the believers' way. We shall keep him in the path he has chosen, and burn him in Hell - what an evil destination.
Surely those who believe, and do deeds of righteousness, their Lord will guide them for their belief; beneath them rivers flowing in gardens of bliss;
May Allah pardon you, [O Muhammad]; why did you give them permission [to remain behind]? [You should not have] until it was evident to you who were truthful and you knew [who were] the liars.
and grains with their husk and fragrant plants.
And the night and that which it drives on,
Our Lord! Indeed we heard a crier calling to the faith saying: "Believe in your Lord"; so we did believe. Our Lord, forgive us our sins, and wipe out our evil deeds and make us die with the truly pious.'
And We made the son of Mary and his mother a sign, and gave them shelter on an elevated ground, sequestered, watered by a spring.
(Laughter) One of the pivotal times for me was actually learning to cross the street again as a blind person.
Thus We recount unto thee some tidings of that which hath preceded; and surely We have vouchsafed unto thee from before Us an admonition.
They shall say: 'Our Lord, twice You have made us die, and twice You have given us life, now, we confess our sins. Is there any way we can be brought out of this'
And remember your Lord by your tongue and within yourself, humbly and with fear without loudness in words in the mornings, and in the afternoons and be not of those who are neglectful.
O People who Believe! Obey Allah and obey the Noble Messenger, and do not render your deeds void.
To Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth, and the Day that the Hour of Judgment is established,- that Day will the dealers in Falsehood perish!
And remember when He appointed you successors after Ad, and lodged you in the land, taking to yourselves castles of its plains, and hewing its mountains into houses. Remember God's bounties, and do not mischief in the earth, working corruption.'
There will be no sin upon you in entering [without announcing] uninhabited houses wherein you have goods belonging to you. Allah knows whatever you disclose and whatever you conceal.
Then you will surely see it with the eye of certainty.
And they denied Our signs to the extreme.
(If they turn away from the Law of Allah) do they desire judgement according to the Law of Ignorance? But for those who have certainty of belief whose judgement can be better than Allah's?
And when We would destroy a township We send commandment to its folk who live at ease, and afterward they commit abomination therein, and so the Word (of doom) hath effect for it, and we annihilate it with complete annihilation.
We and our fathers were promised this before. [But] these are just myths of the ancients.'
Those who were before them plotted; but all plotting is Allah's. He knoweth that which each soul earneth. The disbelievers will come to know for whom will be the sequel of the (heavenly) Home.
And forsake those who take their religion for a pastime and a jest, and whom the life of the world beguileth. Remind (mankind) hereby lest a soul be destroyed by what it earneth. It hath beside Allah no protecting ally nor intercessor, and though it offer every compensation it will not be accepted from it. Those are they who perish by their own deserts. For them is drink of boiling water and a painful doom, because they disbelieved.
But when He lifts the harm from you, some of you associate others with their Lord.
They will plead on oath that you accept them. Even if you accept them, remember God does not accept people who are disobedient.
like water.
And remember thou Our bondman Ayyub, what time he cried Unto his Lord: verily the Satan hath touched me with affliction and suffering.
Do you not see how they ramble in every style?
And when Our revelations are rehearsed unto them, they say: we have heard; we could if we willed, surely say something the like thereof; naught is this but fables of the ancients.
He neither begat, nor was begotten,
Save unto every messenger whom He hath chosen, and then He maketh a guard to go before him and a guard behind him
Or, do their intellects order them to do this? Or, are they an insolent people?
and when the earth is stretched out
Pharaoh asked: "Then, what is the state of the former generations?"
Then when the twain had submitted themselves and he had prostrated him upon his temple.
And they ask thee of menstruation. Say thou: it is a pollution, so keep away from women during menstruation, and go not in unto them until they have purified themselves. Then when they have thoroughly purified themselves, go in unto them as Allah hath commanded you. Verily Allah loveth the penitents, and loveth the purifiers of themselves.
So that you may not be saddened upon losing something, nor rejoice upon what you are given; and Allah does not like any boastful, conceited person.
It is He Who gives Life and Death; and when He decides upon an affair, He says to it, "Be", and it is.
They said, "It is all the same to us whether you advise or are not of the advisors.
And from [part of] the night, pray with it as additional [worship] for you; it is expected that your Lord will resurrect you to a praised station.
And never will the Jews or the Christians approve of you until you follow their religion. Say, "Indeed, the guidance of Allah is the [only] guidance." If you were to follow their desires after what has come to you of knowledge, you would have against Allah no protector or helper.
So the end of both will be that they will be in the Fire, abiding therein. Such is the recompense of the Zalimun (i.e. polytheists, wrong-doers, disbelievers in Allah and in His Oneness, etc.).
Sent down by One Who created the earth and the lofty heavens.
So be not thou in dubitation concerning that which these people worship. They worship not save as their fathers worshipped afore; and verily We will repay unto them in full their portion, undiminished.
Whatsoever is on it (the earth) will perish.
They said: By Allah! now has Allah certainly chosen you over us, and we were certainly sinners.
But their faith could not avail them when they saw Our doom. This is Allah's law which hath ever taken course for His bondmen. And then the disbelievers will be ruined.
But they turned their backs and went away from him.
And hold fast, all of you together, to the Rope of Allah (i.e. this Quran), and be not divided among yourselves, and remember Allah's Favour on you, for you were enemies one to another but He joined your hearts together, so that, by His Grace, you became brethren (in Islamic Faith), and you were on the brink of a pit of Fire, and He saved you from it. Thus Allah makes His Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.,) clear to you, that you may be guided.
God desires to make clear to you, and to guide you in the institutions of those before you, and to turn towards you; God is All-knowing, All-wise;
Why did the men of God and rabbis not forbid them from following their sinful words and their consuming of unlawful gains. Evil was their (rabbis and priests) profession!
As for those who have earned evil deeds: a reward of similar evil, and shame will cover them. They will have no defense against God - as if their faces are covered with dark patches of night. These are the inmates of the Fire, abiding therein forever.
And when Our signs are recited to such a man he turns away, waxing proud, as though he heard them not, and in his ears were heaviness; so give him good tidings of a painful chastisement.
Those who spend their wealth for God's cause and do not follow their almsgiving with taunts and insults shall be rewarded by their Lord; they shall have no fear, nor shall they grieve.
And when he came to the waters of Midian he found a crowd of people watering (their flocks), and saw two maidens holding back (their cattle). He asked: "What is the trouble with you?" They said: "We cannot water our flock till the shepherds have driven away theirs, and our father is a very old man."
We made it an ordeal for the unjust.
I found her and her people worshipping the sun, instead of God. Satan has made their conduct appear good to them, and has thus diverted them from the right path, so that they might not be guided.
They who are idolaters will say: Had Allah willed, we had not ascribed (unto Him) partners neither had our fathers, nor had we forbidden aught. Thus did those who were before them give the lie (to Allah's messengers) till they tasted of the fear of Us. Say: Have ye any knowledge that ye can adduce for Us? Lo! ye follow naught but an opinion, Lo! ye do but guess.
And heaped therein mischief (on mischief).
Our angels came to Abraham with good news, and said: "Peace on you. "Peace on you too," said Abraham, and hastened to bring a roasted calf.
And certainly the recompense of the life to come is better for those who believe and follow the right path.
O ye who believe! be not forward in the presence of Allah and His apostle, and fear Allah; verily Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
This is the Paradise those of Our creatures will inherit who take heed and fear the displeasure of God.
And why should ye not fight in the cause of Allah and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated (and oppressed)?- Men, women, and children, whose cry is: "Our Lord! Rescue us from this town, whose people are oppressors; and raise for us from Thee one who will protect; and raise for us from Thee one who will help!"
"No knowledge have I of the Chiefs on high, when they discuss (matters) among themselves.
slain were the Men of the Pit,
Or, like the darknesses in a sea deep; there covereth it a wave from above it, a wave from above it, above which is a cloud: darknesses one above anot her: when he putteth out his hand well-nigh he seeth it not. And upto whomsoever Allah shall not appoint a light, his shall be no light.
They say, 'What, when we have gone astray in the earth, shall we indeed be in a new creation?' Nay, but they disbelieve in the encounter with their Lord.
And drive not away those who call upon their Lord morning and evening, seeking His countenance. Not on thee is aught of their reckoning, nor on them aught of thine reckoning, so that thou mayest drive them away and thus become of the wrong-doers.
And We made them a precedent and example to the later generations.
and by the reciters of the Reminder:
And verily it is in the Scriptures of the ancients.
And they will say, "We do believe (now) in the (Truth)"; but how could they receive (Faith) from a position (so far off,-
Then We annihilated the others.
Cannot lead astray [turn away from Him (Allah) anyone of the believers],
We forgave him his sins. His reward will be nearness to Us, a good place to return to.
He asks: "When will be this Day of Resurrection?"
He replied: "Should I trust you with him as I did his brother? But God is the best of guardians, and most merciful of all."
Such is the Promise made, to you for the Day of Account!
Then gathered he and summoned
and also glorify Him during the night and at the receding of the stars.
He said, "Did I not tell you that you will not be able to endure with me?"
They said: 'What shall be the recompense, if you prove to be lying'
(Allah has knowledge) of the (Prophet's) cry, "O my Lord! Truly these are people who will not believe!"
O People who Believe! Do not be like the people who troubled Moosa - so Allah freed him from the allegations they had uttered; and Moosa is honourable in the sight of Allah.
They said: we miss the king's cup; and for him who bringeth it shall be a camel-load; and thereof I am a guarantor.
And fight them until no mischief remains, and only Allah is worshipped; then if they desist, do not harm them, except the unjust.
Wherefore Allah will reward them, for that which they said, with Gardens whereunder rivers flow as abiders therein: such is the recompense of the well-doers.
Saying: Put him into a chest, then cast it down into the river, then the river shall throw him on the shore; there shall take him up one who is an enemy to Me and enemy to him, and I cast down upon you love from Me, and that you might be brought up before My eyes;
Well, you are those who pleaded for them in the life of this world; but who will plead for them on the Day of Resurrection or be their security?
And [We disposed] for Solomon the tempestuous wind which blew by his command toward the land which We have blessed, and We have knowledge of all things.
And Noah was informed through revelation: "Apart from those who have come to believe already not one of your people is going to believe. So grieve not for what they are doing.
To God belongs all that is in the heavens and the earth. We have told you and the People of the Book to have fear of God. If you all refuse to believe in Him, know that to God belongs all that is in the heavens and the earth. God is Self-sufficient and Praiseworthy.
That is the reward of the enemies of Allah-- the fire; for them therein shall be the house of long abiding; a reward for their denying Our communications.
They shall enter the Gardens of Eden, under which rivers flow, and there they shall have all they desire. So Allah recompenses the cautious,
And when We delivered you from Firon's people who subjected you to severe torment, killing your sons and sparing your women, and in this there was a great trial from your Lord.
O you who have believed, respond to Allah and to the Messenger when he calls you to that which gives you life. And know that Allah intervenes between a man and his heart and that to Him you will be gathered.
As for those who adhere to the Book and are firm in devotion, We shall certainly not let the wages of those who are upright to go waste.
If those who disbelieved but knew the time when they will not avert the Fire from their faces or from their backs and they will not be aided...
The night and day and the sun and moon are (only) some of His signs. So do not bow before the sun and the moon, but bow in homage to God who created them, if you truly worship Him.
But verily the reward of the Hereafter is the best, for those who believe, and are constant in righteousness.
He knows all the unseen and seen. He is the most Great and High.
Ask them, "Tell me, if the punishment of God came upon you suddenly or predictably, would any but the wrongdoers be destroyed?"
But his Lord exalted him, and included him among His righteous servants.
So there is not for him here this Day any devoted friend
[We sent them] with clear proofs and written ordinances. And We revealed to you the message that you may make clear to the people what was sent down to them and that they might give thought.
But those whose scales are light - those are the ones who have lost their souls, [being] in Hell, abiding eternally.
and they say, "That indeed would be a losing return."
And when the two hosts came in view of each other, Moses' companions said: 'We have been reached'
And it is God who has appointed a place of rest for you of your houses, and He has appointed for you of the skins of the cattle houses you find light on the day that you journey, and on the day you abide, and of their wool, and of their fur, and of their hair furnishing and an enjoyment for a while.
Peace be on Musa and Haroun.
So I wrote back, "WTF" in bold to Mr. Adidas, thanking secretly that some acronyms and things won't change at all.
And We gave Moses the Book, after that We had destroyed the former generations, to be examples and a guidance and a mercy, that haply so they might remember.
[Abraham] said, "Peace will be upon you. I will ask forgiveness for you of my Lord. Indeed, He is ever gracious to me.
Do not revile those who invoke others apart from God, lest they begin to revile God out of malice and ignorance. We have made attractive their deeds to every people. They have to go back to their Lord, when He will tell them what they used to do.
We shall now show them Our signs in all the directions and within their own selves until it becomes clear to them that it is certainly the truth; is not your Lord sufficient as a Witness over all things?
So Hudhud did not stay absent for long, and presenting himself submitted, "I have witnessed a matter that your majesty has not seen, and I have brought definite information to you from the city of Saba."
Then he went to Joseph and said to him: "Joseph, O truthfulness incarnate, tell the true meaning of the dream in which seven fat cows are devoured by seven lean ones; and there are seven green ears of corn and seven others dry and withered so that I may return to the people and they may learn."
He has enumerated them and counted them a [full] counting.
Fight those people of the Book who do not believe in God and the Last Day, who do not prohibit what God and His Apostle have forbidden, nor accept divine law, until all of them pay protective tax in submission.
Say thou: whosoever is an enemy unto Jibril, ----then verily he it is Who hath brought down this Revelation, by Allah's command, to thine heart, confirming that which went before, and a guidance and glad tidings unto the believers.
As they came upon David -- and he was frightened of them -- they said: "Be not afraid. We are just two litigants: one of us has committed excess against the other. So judge rightly between us, and be not unjust; and guide us to the Right Way.
Will you not fight against those who have broken their oaths and conspired to banish the Messenger? They were the first to attack you. Do you fear them? Surely God is more deserving of your fear, if you are true believers.
Pharaoh said, 'And what of the former generations?'
And with them will be chaste females, restraining their glances (desiring none except their husbands), with wide and beautiful eyes.
And they disputed upon their plan between them, and communed secretly
O ye mankind! there surely hath come unto you a proof from your Lord, and We have sent down unto you a manifest light.
We will cast into the hearts of the unbelievers terror, for that they have associated with God that for which He sent down never authority; their lodging shall be the Fire; evil is the lodging of the evildoers.
And for the sake of your Lord, patiently endure.
The man from Egypt who bought him said to his wife: "Take good care of him, possibly he might be of benefit to us or we might adopt him as a son." Thus We found a way for Joseph to become established in that land and in order that We might teach him to comprehend the deeper meaning of things. Allah has full power to implement His design although most people do not know that.
O believers, if an ungodly man comes to you with a tiding, make clear, lest you afflict a people unwittingly, and then repent of what you have done.
Yea, Woe to him; How he plotted!-
On the Day of Judgment, they will certainly be barred from the mercy of their Lord.
But if they repent, and perform the prayers, and give the obligatory charity, then they are your brethren in faith. We detail the revelations for a people who know.
To the Thamud We sent their brother Salih. He said, "O my people, worship God; you have no other god but Him. A veritable proof has come to you from your Lord: this is God's she-camel, a sign for you, so let her feed in God's land and do not harm her in any way, or you will be overwhelmed by a painful punishment.
But if ye decide to take one wife in place of another, even if ye had given the latter a whole treasure for dower, Take not the least bit of it back: Would ye take it by slander and manifest wrong?
Could you let me share my passion with you through my performance?
And believe in what I have sent down confirming what is with you, and do not be the first to disbelieve it. Do not sell My verses for a little price and fear Me.
As to those who have rejected (Allah), and would keep back (men) from the Way of Allah, and from the Sacred Mosque, which We have made (open) to (all) men - equal is the dweller there and the visitor from the country - and any whose purpose therein is profanity or wrong-doing - them will We cause to taste of a most Grievous Penalty.
And the desalination process is one where we take out salts.
Aaron said, "Son of my mother! Do not seize me by my beard nor by my head. I was afraid that you would say, 'You have caused dissension among the Children of Israel and did not pay heed to my words.'"
"Thus will your Lord choose you and teach you the interpretation of dreams (and other things) and perfect His Favour on you and on the offspring of Ya'qub (Jacob), as He perfected it on your fathers, Ibrahim (Abraham) and Ishaque (Isaac) aforetime! Verily, your Lord is All-Knowing, All-Wise."
But when there comes the Deafening Blast
Why did you not say when you heard it: "It is not for us to speak of it? God preserve us, it is a great calumny!"
But how (will it be with them) when We bring of every people a witness, and We bring thee (O Muhammad) a witness against these?
Verily, he was one of Our believing slaves.
The Lord said: "O Iblis, what prevented you from prostrating yourself before him whom I created of My Two Hands. Are you waxing proud, or fancy yourself to be too exalted?"
If two parties of believers fight against each other, make peace between them; then if after that one of them transgresses against the other, fight the party that transgresses until it submits to the command of God. Then if it complies, make peace between them with equity, and act justly. Truly, God loves the just.
Certainly, those who took the calf (for worship), wrath from their Lord and humiliation will come upon them in the life of this world. Thus do We recompense those who invent lies.
You certainly wished to die (for the cause of God) before you actually faced death. Then you faced death (in the battlefield and only a few of you had the true desire to die).
He promises them, and he raises their expectations, but Satan promises them nothing but delusions.
But those who disbelieve (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism), for them is destruction, and (Allah) will make their deeds vain.
on that Day, to your Lord alone is the recourse.
and the inhabitants of Midian, to Moses they also belied. I respited the unbelievers, then I seized them, and how was My disapproval!
There the believers were tried and they were shaken with severe shaking.
When I was 13, I found the autobiography of Helen Keller.
and leave be the Hereafter.
Those who disbelieve should not assume that We respite them for their own good. In fact, We only respite them so that they may increase in sinfulness. A humiliating torment awaits them.
He who will cause me to die and bring me back to life;
They announced "These people are a small group."
They think that AlAhzab (the Confederates) have not yet withdrawn, and if AlAhzab (the Confederates) should come (again), they would wish they were in the deserts (wandering) among the bedouins, seeking news about you (from a far place); and if they (happen) to be among you, they would not fight but little.
Allah forbids you only in regard to those who made war against you on account of religion and expelled you from your homes and supported [the polytheists of Makkah] in your expulsion, that you make friends with them, and whoever makes friends with them - it is they who are the wrongdoers.
And Hell-Fire shall be placed in full view for (all) to see,-
O People who Believe! If you marry Muslim women and divorce them without having touched them, so for you there is no waiting period for the women, which you may count; therefore give them some benefit and release them with a proper release.
Samood and Ad called the striking calamity a lie.
Does their reason tell them to say this or is it because they are a rebellious people?
By heaven and the night-star!
Say: "O Allah! Lord of Power (And Rule), Thou givest power to whom Thou pleasest, and Thou strippest off power from whom Thou pleasest: Thou enduest with honour whom Thou pleasest, and Thou bringest low whom Thou pleasest: In Thy hand is all good. Verily, over all things Thou hast power.
Bring back our fathers, if ye speak the truth!
a sending down from the Lord of all Being.
Then We created the drop of fluid as a clinging mass. Then We created the clinging mass as a fleshy tissue. Then We created the fleshy tissue as bones. Then We clothed the bones with flesh. Then We produced him as [yet] another creature. So blessed is Allah, the best of creators!
And likewise, of camels there are two, and of oxen there are two. Ask them: 'Is it either the two males that He has forbidden or the two females, or that which the wombs of the two females may contain? Or were you present when Allah enjoined this commandment upon you?' Who, then, would be more unjust than he who fabricates a lie against Allah that he might lead people astray without knowledge. Surely Allah never guides such a wrong-doing folk.
At last his evil soul drove him to the murder of his brother, and he killed him, whereby he himself became one of the losers.
The way We have sent to you a Noble Messenger from among you, who recites to you Our verses and purifies you, and teaches you the Book and sound wisdom*, and teaches you what you did not know. (The traditions / sayings of the Holy Prophet - peace and blessings be upon him).
And therein they shall be given to drink a cup whose mixture is ginger,
Musa said unto him: shall I follow thee that thou mayest teach me of that which thou hast been taught a directive knowledge.
The believers are those who believe in Allah and His Messenger and have not doubted, and who struggled in His Way with their possessions and themselves. Such are those who are truthful.
Go back to your father and say: O our father! surely your son committed theft, and we do not bear witness except to what we have known, and we could not keep watch over the unseen:
They said, "Moses, will you throw down first, or shall we be the first to throw down?"
And obey Allah and His Messenger, and do not dispute and [thus] lose courage and [then] your strength would depart; and be patient. Indeed, Allah is with the patient.
Then when he was come thereto, he was called from the right side of the valley in the ground blest from the tree: Musa! verily I! I am Allah, the Lord of the worlds;
What aileth you? How ill ye judge!
And (remember) when your Lord brought forth from the Children of Adam, from their loins, their seed (or from Adam's loin his offspring) and made them testify as to themselves (saying): "Am I not your Lord?" They said: "Yes! We testify," lest you should say on the Day of Resurrection: "Verily, we have been unaware of this."
He said: 'My Lord as You have favored me, I will never be a helper to the wrongdoer'
And said God: "I shall send it down to you; but if any of you disbelieve after this, I shall inflict such punishment on him as I never shall inflict on any other creature."
They will be reclining on arrayed couches, and We will wed them to big-eyed houris.
and vie with the others (in carrying out their Lord's behests);
We are the heirs of the earth and those living in it will all return to Us.
He then continued: "Look! This is he whom You have exalted above me! If you will grant me respite till the Day of Resurrection I shall uproot the whole of his progeny except only a few."
For all people a term has been set: and when [the end of] their term approaches, they can neither delay it by a single moment, nor can they advance it.
Yet it is the absolute truth.
They said, 'Be not afraid; behold, we give thee good tidings of a cunning boy.'
Those who do not believe in the Hereafter - We have made their deeds seem good to them, so they are astray.
Believers! Be upholders of justice, and bearers of witness to truth for the sake of Allah, even though it may either be against yourselves or against your parents and kinsmen, or the rich or the poor: for Allah is more concerned with their well-being than you are. Do not, then, follow your own desires lest you keep away from justice. If you twist or turn away from (the truth), know that Allah is well aware of all that you do.
We have appointed for every nation a holy rite that they shall perform. Let them not therefore wrangle with thee upon the matter, and do thou summon unto thy Lord; surely thou art upon a straight guidance.
And recite (O Muhammad SAW) to them the story of him to whom We gave Our Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.), but he threw them away, so Shaitan (Satan) followed him up, and he became of those who went astray.
O O Ye who believe: fear Allah and leave that which remainoth of usury if ye are believers.
We heard his prayer and relieved his suffering, We restored to him his family, doubling their number as an act of Our grace, and as a reminder for the worshippers.
And Ours their reckoning.
By no means shall ye attain righteousness unless ye give (freely) of that which ye love; and whatever ye give, of a truth Allah knoweth it well.
We did not send before you except men whom We inspired. So ask the people of knowledge, if you do not know.
for what sin she was slain,
All we can say is that some god of ours has afflicted you with evil.. Hud said: 'Indeed I take Allah as my witness, and you too to be my witnesses that I have nothing to do with your associating with Allah
He asks, "When is the Day of Resurrection?"
And remember when We sent Lot [as a Messeng to his people and he said to them: 'Do you realize you practise an indecency of which no other people in the world were guilty of before you?
and say, "I am, indeed, a plain warner,"
Have they not travelled in the earth and seen how was the end of those who were before them? Mightier than these were they in strength-- and in fortifications in the land, but Allah destroyed them for their sins; and there was not for them any defender against Allah.
SAY: "I HAVE been informed that a number of jinns had listened; then said: 'We have heard the wondrous Qur'an,
That He may forgive you somewhat of your sins and respite you to an appointed term. Lo! the term of Allah, when it cometh, cannot be delayed, if ye but knew.
Except one who repents and accepts faith and does good deeds - so Allah will turn their evil deeds into virtues; and Allah is Oft Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Therefor keep your duty to Allah and obey me,
Therefore glorify the name of your Lord, the Great.
"O Yahya - hold the Book firmly"; and We gave him Prophethood in his infancy. (Prophet Yahya was only 2 years old at that time.)
Save those who believe and do good works, and exhort one another to truth and exhort one another to endurance.
God: There is no god but He; and in God should believers place their trust.
Indeed We sent Our Noble Messengers with proofs, and sent down the Book and the Balance of Justice along with them, so that people may stay upon justice; and We sent down iron having severe heat and benefits for mankind, and so that Allah may see him, who without seeing aides Him and His Noble Messengers; indeed Allah is Almighty, Dominant.
Nor I acquit myself; verily the self ever urgeth to evil save that self on Whom my Lord hath mercy; verily My Lord is Forgiving, Merciful.
But whoever comes to Him (Allah) as a believer (in the Oneness of Allah, etc.), and has done righteous good deeds, for such are the high ranks (in the Hereafter),
And slay them wherever you come upon them, and expel them from where they expelled you; persecution is more grievous than slaying. But fight them not by the Holy Mosque until they should fight you there; then, if they fight you, slay them -- such is the recompense of unbelievers --
And of His portents is the creation of the heaven and the earth, and of whatever beasts He hath dispersed therein. And He is Able to gather them when He will.
And strike sparks of fire,
The day the punishment comes upon them from above and underneath their feet, (God will) say: "And now taste of what you had done."
His. people remonstrated with him whereupon Abraharn said: 'Do you remonstrate with me concerning Allah Who has guided me to the right way? I do not fear those whom you associate with Allah in His divinity. Only that which my Lord wills, indeed that alone will come by. My Lord embraces all things within His knowledge. Will you not take heed?
And you will see the Mujrimun (criminals, disbelievers in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism, polytheists, disobedient to Allah, etc.) that Day bound together in fetters; [Muqarranun in fetters; mean:- with their hands and feet tied to their necks with chains.]
For they say: "How Is it no signs were sent down to him from his Lord?" Say: "The signs are with God. I am only a warner, plain and simple."
'Our Lord, raise amongst them an apostle from among them, who will recite to them Your signs and teach them the Book and wisdom and purify them. Indeed You are the All-mighty, the All-wise.'
When God brings you back safely and a group of hypocrites ask you to make them exempt from taking part in the battle, tell them, "Never march with me and never fight with us against any of the enemies (of God). You chose to linger behind the first time, so this time stay behind with those who are of no help in the battle."
It is nothing but a reminder to the nations;
But for their violation of their covenant, and their denial of God's revelations, and their killing of the prophets unjustly, and their saying, "Our minds are closed." In fact, God has sealed them for their disbelief, so they do not believe, except for a few.
The unbelievers say, 'This is naught but a calumny he has forged, and other folk have helped him to it.' So they have committed wrong and falsehood.
And when the apostles are collected at the appointed time,
Or have they a ladder, by which they can (climb up to heaven and) listen (to its secrets)? Then let (such a) listener of theirs produce a manifest proof.
And know that among you is Allah's Messenger: were he, in many matters, to follow your (wishes), ye would certainly fall into misfortune: But Allah has endeared the Faith to you, and has made it beautiful in your hearts, and He has made hateful to you Unbelief, wickedness, and rebellion: such indeed are those who walk in righteousness;-
I will turn away from My revelations those who behave proudly on earth without justification. Even if they see every sign, they will not believe in it; and if they see the path of rectitude, they will not adopt it for a path; and if they see the path of error, they will adopt it for a path. That is because they denied Our revelations, and paid no attention to them.
The most upright among them said, 'Did I not tell you, ''Why do you not glorify [Allah]?'' '
It was He who let forth the two seas, this one is palatably sweet and this salt, a bitter taste, and He set a barrier between them, and a refuge which is forbidden.
They are the ones who buy Error in place of Guidance and Torment in place of Forgiveness. Ah! what boldness (They show) for the Fire!
And if any of your wives deserts you to the Unbelievers, and ye have an accession (by the coming over of a woman from the other side), then pay to those whose wives have deserted the equivalent of what they had spent (on their dower). And fear Allah, in Whom ye believe.
Allah knows your enemies better and Allah suffices as a protector and Allah suffices as a helper.
Then you, you misguided, who deny the truth.
And by oath of a passage, written -
Do not eat up your wealth among yourselves wrongfully, nor proffer it to the judges in order to eat up a part of the people's wealth sinfully, while you know [that it is immoral to do so].
(They were) the seed of those whom We carried (in the ship) along with Noah. Lo! he was a grateful slave.
In the creation of the heavens and the earth, and in the alternation of night and day, are signs for people of understanding.
'Adn (Eden) Paradise (everlasting Gardens) will they enter, therein will they be adorned with bracelets of gold and pearls, and their garments there will be of silk (i.e. in Paradise).
And what have you understood, what the Night of Destiny is!
From a sperm-drop when it is emitted
and become scattered dust,
I've seen it for myself.
Who created the seven heavens one above another; you see no incongruity in the creation of the Beneficent Allah; then look again, can you see any disorder?
Call to mind when Abraham said to his father and his people: "I totally disown all whom you serve
So when the truth (Prophet Muhammad) came to them from Us, they said: 'Why is he not given the like of that which was given to Moses' But did they not also disbelieve in that which Moses was given before! They say (about Moses and Aaron): 'Two sorcerers supporting one another' And they said: 'We disbelieve both'
And the dwellers on the Battlements shall call to certain men they know by their sign: 'Your amassing has not availed you, neither your waxing proud.
Thus, your Lord will select you, teach you the interpretation of dreams, and grant His favors to you and the family of Jacob, just as He granted His favors to your fathers, Abraham and Isaac. Your Lord is certainly All-knowing and All-wise."
Which will neither nourish nor avail against hunger.
O mankind! Eat from what is lawful and clean in the earth; and do not follow the footsteps of the devil; undoubtedly he is your open enemy.
And they say: When will this promise be (fulfilled) if you are truthful?
Those who call their wives their mothers then revoke what they had said, should free a slave before having physical contact (with them). This is to warn you, as God is aware of what you do.
Then We sent Moses and his brother Aaron with Our signs and a manifest authority
Thereby to produce grain and plant,
And indeed you knew those amongst you who transgressed in the matter of the Sabbath (i.e. Saturday). We said to them: "Be you monkeys, despised and rejected."
Those who belied Shu'aib, became as if they had never dwelt there (in their homes). Those who belied Shu'aib, they were the losers.
Or have We sworn a covenant with you which We are bound to keep till the Day of Resurrection, (a covenant requiring that whatever you ordain for yourselves shall be yours)?
On the day when We gather them all together, then We say unto those who ascribed partners (unto Us): Stand back, ye and your (pretended) partners (of Allah)! And We separate them, the one from the other, and their (pretended) partners say: It was not us ye worshipped.
I say the truth, and call the moon to witness,
Do they have any associates (of Allah) who have laid down for them a way pertaining to faith which Allah did not sanction? But for the fact that a decree had already been made, the matter between them would have been decided once and for all. Surely a grievous chastisement awaits the wrong-doers.
And when they commit any shameful act they say, "We found our forefathers on it and Allah has commanded it to us"; say, "Indeed Allah does not ordain shamelessness; what! You attribute things to Allah, which you do not know?"
They shall say while they contend therein:
And those who have taken a mosque in opposition and unbelief, and to divide the believers, and as a place of ambush for those who fought God and His Messenger aforetime -- they will swear 'We desired nothing but good'; and God testifies they are truly liars.
Guide us on the Straight Path.
Or feel ye secure that He will not return you to that (plight) a second time, and send against you a hurricane of wind and drown you for your thanklessness, and then ye will not find therein that ye have any avenger against Us?
When she came she was asked, "Is your throne like this?" She replied, "It seems that this is it. We had received the knowledge before this and were submissive (to Solomon's power)".
Ah! Alas for (My) Servants! There comes not a messenger to them but they mock him!
He placed stablisers in the earth so that while it revolves you live undisturbed, and rivers and tracks so that you may find your way;
This is because of that (evil) which your hands have sent before you. And certainly, Allah is never unjust to (His) slaves.
Therein are fruit and palm-trees with their dates in sheaths,
Most surely there is a sign in that, but most of them will not believe.
And were it not for Allah's grace upon you and His mercy-- and that Allah is Oft-returning (to mercy), Wise!
And to Madyan [We sent] their brother Shu'ayb. He said, "O my people, worship Allah; you have no deity other than Him. And do not decrease from the measure and the scale. Indeed, I see you in prosperity, but indeed, I fear for you the punishment of an all-encompassing Day.
Did you think that We had created you for a playful purpose and that you were not to return to Us?"
Glory be to Him Who created all the sexual pairs, of that which the earth groweth, and of themselves, and of that which they know not!
And those who believe in their Lord's Verses.
He cannot be questioned about what He does, but they will be questioned.
(And remember) when Abraham said to his father Azar: 'Will you take idols for gods, surely I see you and your people are in clear error'
And say "Keep on with your works - Allah will now see your deeds, and so will His Noble Messenger and the Muslims; and soon you will return to the One Who knows everything - the hidden and the visible - so He will inform you of what you used to do."
And Allah has made for you the earth wide spread (an expanse).
He is Allah, the Creator, the Evolver, the Bestower of Forms (or Colours). To Him belong the Most Beautiful Names: whatever is in the heavens and on earth, doth declare His Praises and Glory: and He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
This, by the Lord of the heavens and the earth is as certain as your ability to speak.
When God brought you out of your mothers wombs, you knew nothing. He gave you ears, eyes, and hearts so that perhaps you would give Him thanks.
He said: O my Lord! judge Thou with truth; and our Lord is the Beneficent Allah, Whose help is sought against what you ascribe (to Him).
If you now have any conspiracy, carry it out on Me.
Besides the other burdens that they will have to carry, they will certainly be loaded with the burden of their own sins. They will be questioned on the Day of Judgment about what they had falsely invented.
It does not allow anyone to live, and neither does it leave anyone to die;
We had earlier given Abraham true direction, for We knew him well.
And be on your guard against a day when one soul shall not avail another in the least, neither shall intercession on its behalf be accepted, nor shall any compensation be taken from it, nor shall they be helped.
Say, "Call upon Allah or call upon the Most Merciful. Whichever [name] you call - to Him belong the best names." And do not recite [too] loudly in your prayer or [too] quietly but seek between that an [intermediate] way.
Said he, 'Surely your Messenger who was sent to you is possessed!'
Used to determine whether settings should be migrated to a new version.
Then she heard the baby saying, "Do not be sad. Your Lord has caused a stream to run at your feet.
When he came near the fire he was called, "Moses,
They called him a liar. Thus, all of them will suffer torment
The vegetation of a good land comes forth (easily) by the Permission of its Lord, and that which is bad, brings forth nothing but a little with difficulty. Thus do We explain variously the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) for a people who give thanks.
And on the day when those who disbelieve are exposed to the Fire (it will be said): Ye squandered your good things in the life of the world and sought comfort therein. Now this day ye are rewarded with the doom of ignominy because ye were disdainful in the land without a right, and because ye used to transgress.
A numerical book.
On that day We shall resurrect from every nation a group of those who denied Our signs, and they will be held in check.
And indeed We have created man and We know what his soul instils in him; and We are nearer to him than the hearts artery.
Why, surely to God belongs everyone that is in the heavens and in the earth; they follow, who call upon associates, apart from God -- they follow nothing but surmise, merely conjecturing.
It will be the Day when they shall be scourged by the Fire
And pray in the small watches of the morning: (it would be) an additional prayer (or spiritual profit) for thee: soon will thy Lord raise thee to a Station of Praise and Glory!
Upon the day when He shall muster them all together, then He shall say to the angels, 'Was it you these were serving?
or add to it a little; and recite the Qur'an slowly and distinctly.
But Allah did punish him, (and made an) example of him, - in the Hereafter, as in this life.
The knower of the unseen and the seen, the Great, the Most High.
You will not be able to be fair between wives, even if you are eager to do so. Yet do not turn away from one altogether, leaving her as if in a suspense. But if you are conciliatory and Godwary, Allah is indeed all-forgiving, all-merciful.
(It was said to him): "Ah now!- But a little while before, wast thou in rebellion!- and thou didst mischief (and violence)!
And admit them to Paradise which He has made known to them (i.e. they will know their places in Paradise more than they used to know their houses in the world).
And when you said, 'Moses, we will not believe thee till we see God openly'; and the thunderbolt took you while you were beholding.
What, do you come to male beings,
And all that is in the heavens and the earth belongs to God; and everything is well within the compass of God.
They will say: our Lord! Thou hast made us die twice, and Thou hast made us live twice now We confess our sins: there no getting out any way?
So remain on a right course as you have been commanded, [you] and those who have turned back with you [to Allah], and do not transgress. Indeed, He is Seeing of what you do.
He will be judged with an easy account
And away from them shall go what they called upon before, and they shall know for certain that there is no escape for them.
They said, "O 'Azeez, indeed he has a father [who is] an old man, so take one of us in place of him. Indeed, we see you as a doer of good."
That the hearts of those who believe not in the Hereafter may incline thereto, and that they may take pleasure therein, and that they may earn what they are earning.
We have inspired you, as We had inspired Noah and the prophets after him. And We inspired Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac, and Jacob, and the Patriarchs, and Jesus, and Job, and Jonah, and Aaron, and Solomon. And We gave David the Psalms.
Do the people of the towns feel secure that Our might will not come upon them by day, while they play?
The human was created of haste. Indeed, I will show you My signs; so do not ask Me to hasten them.
This it is that ye are promised for the Day of Reckoning.
Therefore advise; indeed you are a proclaimer of advice. (The Holy Prophet is a Remembrance from Allah.)
It burns the skin.
THOSE WHO DISBELIEVE and obstruct (others) from the way of God will have wasted their deeds.
Take this letter of mine, deliver it to them, and then draw back from them, and observe what they do."
As also in your own selves: Will ye not then see?
And not a prophet came Unto them but him they were wont to mock.
Then Firawn turned away, devised his stratagem; thereafter he came.
By no means! We shall write down all what he says; and We shall greatly prolong his chastisement,
Moses prayed: "Our Lord! Thou hast indeed bestowed on Pharaoh and his chiefs splendour and wealth in the life of the present, and so, Our Lord, they mislead (men) from Thy Path. Deface, our Lord, the features of their wealth, and send hardness to their hearts, so they will not believe until they see the grievous penalty."
And when Our verses are recited to them, their only argument is: 'Bring our fathers back to us, if what you say is true'
Only those believe in Our signs who, when they are reminded of them, fall down in prostration and celebrate the praise of their Lord, and they are not arrogant.
They said: If he steal, a brother of his did indeed steal before; but Yusuf kept it secret in his heart and did not disclose it to them. He said: You are in an evil condition and Allah knows best what you state.
The Mosques of Allah shall be maintained only by those who believe in Allah and the Last Day; perform As-Salat (Iqamat-as-Salat), and give Zakat and fear none but Allah. It is they who are expected to be on true guidance.
To your Lord on that day shall be the driving.
And his nearest kindred who shelter him
Not equal are the fellows of the Fire and the fellows of the Garden. Fellows of the Garden! they are the achievers!
And seek assistance through patience and prayer, and most surely it is a hard thing except for the humble ones,
We should certainly seize him by his right hand,
When vision is dazzled.
Have you not looked at those who repaid God's favours with ingratitude; who pulled their people down to ruin,
Have you (O Muhammad (Peace be upon him)) seen him (i.e. Abu Jahl) who prevents,
Then there will come a year when people will be helped by plenty of rain and they will press (grapes)."
There is no crawling creature on the earth, nor a bird that flies with its two wings, but they are nations like you. We have neglected nothing in the Book. They shall all be gathered before their Lord.
And they said: "If it had been the Will of the Most Beneficent (Allah), we should not have worshipped them (false deities)." They have no knowledge whatsoever of that. They do nothing but lie!
"Did he turn all the gods into one God? This is something strange."
Remember Moses said to his people: "O my people! Call in remembrance the favour of Allah unto you, when He produced prophets among you, made you kings, and gave you what He had not given to any other among the peoples.
Hell is before him, and he is made to drink a festering water,
When the sky breaks apart.
And certainly We sent Musa with Our communications and a clear authority,
And his wife, the wood-carrier,
As for the fornicatress and the fornicator, strike each of them a hundred lashes, and let not pity for them overcome you in Allah's law, if you believe in Allah and the Last Day, and let their punishment be witnessed by a group of the faithful.
To Him belongs all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth, and all that is in between, and all that is beneath the soil.
By your Lord We shall question them one and all
We subjected the wind to him, so that it blew gently at his bidding, wherever he directed it,
They say: "God has begotten a son." Immaculate is He and self-sufficient." Whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth belongs to Him. You have no proof for this (assertion): Why do you say things of God you do not know?
But after them there followed a posterity who missed prayers and followed after lusts soon, then, will they face Destruction,-
[Pharaoh] said, "Indeed, your 'messenger' who has been sent to you is mad."
And ye devour heritages with devouring greed.
"Nor do I deem that the Hour (of Judgment) will (ever) come: Even if I am brought back to my Lord, I shall surely find (there) something better in exchange."
But they hamstrung her, and then were penitent.
Say: 'I give you only one admonition, that you stand before Allah either two by two, or one by one and reflect. There is no madness is in your companion. He (Prophet Muhammad) is only a warner to you, before a terrible punishment'
"Who used to tell me, 'Do you believe it is true?' -
And fill (your) bellies with it;
But the righteous will drink from a cup whose mixture is aroma.
His companion will say: "Here is (the record) I have ready with me."
(As for) those who believe and do good, they shall surely have a reward never to be cut off.
And I have chosen you, so listen to what is revealed [to you].
Do you not see how your Lord extends the shadow? Had He willed, He could have made it still. And We made the sun a pointer to it.
Verily this is a Revelation from the Lord of the Worlds:
God said, "Go down, both of you, from here, as enemies to one another." If there comes to you guidance from Me, then whoever follows My guidance will not lose his way, nor will he come to grief,
Guide us to the Straight Way
What We are sending down in the course of revealing the Qur'an is a healing and a grace for those who have faith; but it adds only to the ruin of the wrong-doers.
But as for those in whose heart is a sickness, it only adds defilement to their defilement, and they die while they are faithless.
(It is) a Day whereon men will be like moths scattered about,
"All praise is to Allah Who gave me Ismail and Ishaq, in my old age; indeed my Lord is the Listener of Prayer."
Leave them thou to eat and to enjoy, and let vain hope divert them; presently they will know.
Do they not know that it is Allah who accepts repentance from His servants and receives charities and that it is Allah who is the Accepting of repentance, the Merciful?
He who fears will mind,
Taking what their Lord gives them; surely they were before that, the doers of good.
So they went on until they came to the people of a town. They asked its people for food, but they refused to extend them any hospitality. There they found a wall which was about to collapse, so he erected it. He said, 'Had you wished, you could have taken a wage for it.'
And those who are keepers of their trusts and their covenant,
Those that were before them also cried lies; then how was My horror!
Read in the name of your Lord Who created.
'Therefore today none of you shall have power to profit or hurt another.' And We shall say to the evildoers, 'Taste the chastisement of the Fire, which you cried lies to!'
They will say, "Our Lord, you made us die twice, and twice you gave us life. Now we acknowledge our sins. Is there any way out?"
Then he turned away from them, and said, "O my people, I have delivered to you the message of my Lord, and I have advised you, but you do not like those who give advice."
Now We have made the Koran easy for Remembrance. Is there any that will remember?
They try to hide themselves from the people because of the disgrace of such news. Will they keep their new born despite the disgrace or bury it alive? How sinful is their Judgment!
You thought the Messenger and the believers would never ever return to their families and this attracted your hearts and caused you to develop evil suspicions. You are a wrong doing people.
Could not load the location
Each soul will be paid in full for what it had done. He is cognisant of what you do.
And your clothing purify
Fight them. May God punish them by your hands, humiliate them, give you victory over them, delight the hearts of the believers
We have sent down clarifying verses. Allah guides whom He will to a Straight Path.
from the evil of darkness when it gathers,
In order to bear their full burdens on the Day of Resurrection, and some burdens of those whom they mislead with their ignorance; pay heed! What an evil burden they bear!
We had no authority over you. You yourselves were rebellious people.
[As for] the thief, the male and the female, amputate their hands in recompense for what they committed as a deterrent [punishment] from Allah. And Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise.
And never came there unto them a messenger but they did mock him.
And who cannot succour them, nor can succour themselves.
And the blind man and the seer are not equal, neither are those who believe and do good works (equal with) the evil-doer. Little do ye reflect!
Before them the people of Noah also gave the lie (to Messengers), and so did many parties after them. Each nation sallied forth against its Messenger to seize him, and they disputed with false arguments seeking therewith to repudiate the Truth. Then I seized them; and behold, how woeful was My retribution!
The Forgiver of sin, and the Most Acceptor of Repentance, the Severe in Punishing, the Greatly Rewarding; there is no God except Him; towards Him only is the return.
O mankind! Be careful of your duty to your Lord Who created you from a single soul and from it created its mate and from them twain hath spread abroad a multitude of men and women. Be careful of your duty toward Allah in Whom ye claim (your rights) of one another, and toward the wombs (that bare you). Lo! Allah hath been a watcher over you.
Allah - beginning with the name of - the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.
and if We had not fortified you, you would have been very slightly inclining towards them;
Have you thought about the fire that you kindle.
It is He who stretched out the earth and placed upon it firm mountains and rivers. And of all fruits, He has put in it two pairs and drew the veil of night over the day. Surely, in these there are signs for a nation who think.
For elections did not bring peace and stability and security in Libya.
into My Paradise.
And as for those who are Fasiqun (disbelievers and disobedient to Allah), their abode will be the Fire, every time they wish to get away therefrom, they will be put back thereto, and it will be said to them: "Taste you the torment of the Fire which you used to deny."
"O two companions of the prison! Are many different lords (gods) better or Allah, the One, the Irresistible?
O you who believe! spend out of what We have given you before the day comes in which there is no bargaining, neither any friendship nor intercession, and the unbelievers-- they are the unjust.
And do not be saddened by those who rush into disbelief. They will not harm God in the least. God desires to give them no share in the Hereafter. A terrible torment awaits them.
Those wronging their souls while the angels are taking them away - they will propose peace: "We did no wrong." Yes you did. God is aware of what you used to do."
Which favors of your Lord will you both belie?
therein they shall abide for ages,
"Does he promise that when ye die and become dust and bones, ye shall be brought forth (again)?
and wherein they will live for ever: what an excellent abode and what an excellent resting place!
Say: Obey Allah and obey the messenger. But if ye turn away, then (it is) for him (to do) only that wherewith he hath been charged, and for you (to do) only that wherewith ye have been charged. If ye obey him, ye will go aright. But the messenger hath no other charge than to convey (the message) plainly.
And We raised above them the Mount, taking compact with them; and We said to them, 'Enter in at the gate, prostrating'; and We said to them, 'Transgress not the Sabbath'; and We took from them a solemn compact.
"Nay,- On Him would ye call, and if it be His will, He would remove (the distress) which occasioned your call upon Him, and ye would forget (the false gods) which ye join with Him!"
And it is guidance and mercy for the believers.
God -- there is no god but He. He will surely gather you to the Resurrection Day, no doubt of it. And who is truer in tidings than God?
Indeed I knew that I will encounter my account [of deeds].'
And [it is] a Qur'an which We have separated [by intervals] that you might recite it to the people over a prolonged period. And We have sent it down progressively.
He said, 'O my people! Tell me, should I stand on a manifest proof from my Lord, and He has granted me His own mercy, who will protect me from Allah should I disobey Him? For then you will increase me in nothing but loss.
Thus do We reward the good-doers.
And He also relented towards the three whose cases had been deferred. When the earth, for all its spaciousness, became constrained to them, and their own beings became a burden to them, and they realized that there was no refuge for them from Allah except in Him; He relented towards them that they may turn back to Him. Surely, it is Allah Who is Much Forgiving, Ever Merciful.
from a drop of [seminal] fluid when emitted;
and the ten nights,
They declare, "We will never believe in you until you cause a spring to flow for us from the earth;
And they wanted to harm him, but We made them the worst losers.
Over it are nineteen (angels as guardians and keepers of Hell).
Saying: Give up to me the slaves of Allah. Lo! I am a faithful messenger unto you.
Say, 'Indeed my Lord expands the provision for whomever of His servants that He wishes and tightens it, and He will repay whatever you may spend, and He is the best of providers.'
Two parties of you were about to fail, though Allah was their Guardian, and in Allah believers put all their trust.
but when Gog and Magog are let loose and swarm down from every hillside and they spread out, [leaping across every barrier of land and sea],
So they returned with favor from Allah and bounty, no harm having touched them. And they pursued the pleasure of Allah, and Allah is the possessor of great bounty.
Those who believe do battle for the cause of Allah; and those who disbelieve do battle for the cause of idols. So fight the minions of the devil. Lo! the devil's strategy is ever weak.
And believe not save one who followeth your religion. Say thou: verily the guidance of Allah - that is the guidance. Envy ye that any one should be vouchsafed the like of that which was vouchsafed unto you or fear ye that those others may overcome you in Contention before your Lord! Say thou: verily the grace is in the hand of Allah He vouchsafeth it unto whomsoever He will; and Allah is Bounteous, Knowing.
So exalted is Allah when you reach the evening and when you reach the morning.
On earth are adjacent terrains, and gardens of vines, and crops, and date-palms, from the same root or from distinct roots, irrigated with the same water. We make some taste better than others. In that are proofs for people who reason.
And the disbelievers said, "This is nothing but a slur he has fabricated and others have helped him upon it"; so indeed the disbelievers have stooped to injustice and lie.
What it tells is the story of how today actually could be as historic as 100 years ago.
"Seize him and drag him to the middle of the Blazing Fire,
Indeed lost are they who have killed their children, from folly, without knowledge, and have forbidden that which Allah has provided for them, inventing a lie against Allah. They have indeed gone astray and were not guided.
Whoever desires honor, then to Allah belongs the honor wholly. To Him do ascend the good words; and the good deeds, lift them up, and (as for) those who plan evil deeds, they shall have a severe chastisement; and (as for) their plan, it shall perish.
And We admitted him to Our Mercy: for he was one of the Righteous.
And We have sent down rain from the sky in a measured amount and settled it in the earth. And indeed, We are Able to take it away.
Well, we need lots of companies working on this -- hundreds.
And what do we hear when we go around?
Allah wishes to lighten for you (the jurisprudence), and humans are created weak.
And that He created pairs, the male and the female
I Myself have chosen thee; therefore give thou ear to this revelation.
Or you should have a house of gold, or you should ascend into heaven, and we will not believe in your ascending until you bring down to us a book which we may read. Say: Glory be to my Lord; am I aught but a mortal apostle?
and so that God might bestow on you His mighty help.
But the idolaters say: "If God had so willed we would not have associated (others with Him), nor would have our fathers, nor would we have forbidden any thing." So had others denied before them, and had to taste Our punishment in the end. Ask them: "Have you any knowledge? Then display it. You follow nothing but conjecture, and are nothing but liars."
What will explain to you what the Shocker is?
and create you in pairs?
That is issued from between the backs and the ribs.
Their Messengers said to them, 'We are nothing but mortals, like you; but God is gracious unto whomsoever He will of His servants. It is not for us to bring you an authority save by the leave of God; and in God let the believers put all their trust.
None of the towns We destroyed before them had believed. Will they, then, believe?
And when you killed a soul, and accused one another about it - and Allah was to expose what you were concealing -
Certainly We created the heavens and the earth, and whatever is between them, in six days, and any fatigue did not touch Us.
And when We have recited it, follow its recitation.
And give the relative his rights, and the poor, and the wayfarer, and do not squander wastefully.
To those who commit bad deeds, but, then, repent and believe (in God), Your Lord will certainly be All-forgiving and All-merciful."
People, you are always in need of God and God is Self-sufficient and Praiseworthy.
Say, "O God, Owner of Sovereignty. You grant sovereignty to whom You will, and You strip sovereignty from whom you will. You honor whom you will, and You humiliate whom you will. In Your hand is all goodness. You are Capable of all things."
So Pharaoh pursued them with his soldiers, and there covered them from the sea that which covered them,
And when they are told, "Spend ye of (the bounties) with which Allah has provided you," the Unbelievers say to those who believe: "Shall we then feed those whom, if Allah had so willed, He would have fed, (Himself)?- Ye are in nothing but manifest error."
Such are those from whom We accept their best deeds and whose evil deeds We overlook. They will be among the people of Paradise in consonance with the true promise made to them.
Lo! Abraham was mild, imploring, penitent.
Then return from where others return and ask Allah's forgiveness. Most surely He is Forgiving and Merciful.
Surely We shall inherit the earth and all that are upon it, and unto Us they shall be returned.
And they will never bring you an example, but We shall bring you a true narration and better than it.
Insert thy hand into thy bosom, and it will come forth white without evil; and press to thee thy arm, that thou be not afraid. So these shall be two proofs from thy Lord to Pharaoh and his Council; for surely they are an ungodly people.'
Or do they say: "He has fabricated it?" In fact, they will never believe.
And I do not know if this is a trial for you and an enjoyment for a time'
Allah did curse him, but he said: "I will take of Thy servants a portion Marked off;
And never did We destroy a town but it had a term made known.
We gave them Our signs, but they turned away from them.
They said, 'Nay, but we found our fathers so doing.'
And from them, the booty which Allah gave to His Noble Messenger - so you had not raced your horses or camels against them, but it is Allah Who gives whomever He wills within the control of His Noble Messengers; and Allah is Able to do all things.
So O listener (followers of this Prophet), do not fall into doubt by what these disbelievers worship; they only worship just as their forefathers worshipped before; and indeed we shall pay them their due in full, undiminished.
Save single-minded slaves of Allah.
Say, "I do not know if what you are promised is near or if my Lord will grant for it a [long] period."
Lo! that which ye are promised will surely come to pass, and ye cannot escape.
Gardens of Eden promised by the All-beneficent to His servants, [while they were still] unseen. Indeed His promise is bound to come to pass.
It lets nothing remain and leaves nothing [unburned],
And the sun -- it runs to a fixed resting-place; that is the ordaining of the All-mighty, the All-knowing.
And We did not give them any Books which they may read, nor did We send to them any Herald of Warning before you.
Pharaoh then withdrew, and gathered his guile. Thereafter he came again,
You shall see them exposed before it, humbled in shame and looking upon it with a furtive glance and the believers will say: 'Indeed, the losers are they who lose themselves and their families on the Day of Resurrection' The harmdoers shall suffer an everlasting punishment.
Only they can reach it who are clean (of mind).
And say to him, "Would you like to reform yourself?
Behold, the hypocrites seek to deceive Allah, but it is they who are being deluded by Him. When they rise to Prayer, they rise reluctantly, and only to be seen by men. They remember Allah but little.
This Qur'an is sufficient for people who are devout.
And he said: You have only taken for yourselves idols besides Allah by way of friendship between you in this world's life, then on the resurrection day some of you shall deny others, and some of you shall curse others, and your abode is the fire, and you shall not have any helpers.
And caused to grow within it grain
So prostrate yourselves to Allah and worship Him!
So which of your Lord's marvels will you deny?
O my son! keep up prayer and enjoin the good and forbid the evil, and bear patiently that which befalls you; surely these acts require courage;
And what will make you realize what hell is?
And We made the son of Maryam (Prophet Eisa) and his mother a sign, and We gave them shelter on a height, a place to stay and visible springs.
Surely in that is a sign, yet most of them are not believers.
To Allah alone belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth. He will requite the evil-doers for their deeds and bestow a goodly reward on those who have done good,
and the people were told: "Will you join the assembly?
God knows well your enemies; God suffices as a protector, God suffices as a helper.
And whenever a surah is revealed there are some of them who say: Which one of you hath thus increased in faith? As for those who believe, it hath increased them in faith and they rejoice (therefor).
For minority kids, it's over 50 percent.
And to Midian We sent forth their brother Shu'ayb He exhorted them: O my people! Serve Allah, you have no god but Him. Indeed a clear proof has come to you from your Lord. So give just weight and measure and diminish not to men their things ' and make no mischief on the earth after it has been set in good order. That is to your own good, if you truly believe.
But Allah was not to punish them whilst you were living in their midst. Nor would Allah punish them if they repeatedly ask forgiveness of Him.
Nay, I swear by the Day of Resurrection;
And by the Promised Day.
Indeed, these [disbelievers] love the immediate and leave behind them a grave Day.
And when there came to them a Book from Allah confirming that which was with them - although before they used to pray for victory against those who disbelieved - but [then] when there came to them that which they recognized, they disbelieved in it; so the curse of Allah will be upon the disbelievers.
They said: Put him off, (him) and his brother, and send into the cities summoners
But to serve Me; (that) this is the straight path?
And heals me when I am sick,
Has there not been over man a period of time, when he was nothing to be mentioned?
He who brings the truth, and he who testifies to it as such -- those are surely the people who are God-fearing:
Say: "With Allah is the perfect proof and argument, (i.e. the Oneness of Allah, the sending of His Messengers and His Holy Books, etc. to mankind), had He so willed, He would indeed have guided you all."
Verily, verily they shall soon (come to) know!
Our Lord, indeed whoever You admit to the Fire - You have disgraced him, and for the wrongdoers there are no helpers.
And Allah makes clear to you the verses, and Allah is Knowing and Wise.
Then if they turn away, O dear Prophet, (Mohammed - peace and blessings be upon him) upon you is nothing but to clearly convey (the message).
He will say: 'Would that I had forwarded (good works) for my life!'
We showed him Our signs, all of them, but he denied and refused.
So for one whose scales prove heavy,
Who fears the Beneficent Allah in secret and comes with a penitent heart:
But he denied, and disobeyed.
So whoever does some good deeds, and is a believer, then his efforts will not be ignored; and We are recording it.
And whoever of you devoutly obeys Allah and His Messenger and does righteousness - We will give her her reward twice; and We have prepared for her a noble provision.
For divorced women a provision in kindness: a duty for those who ward off (evil).
The wicked certainly in Hell:
And mention in the Book, Idris; he too was of the truth and a Prophet,
And if they contend with you, say: Allah best knows what you do.
And when they repented and realised that they had gone astray, they said, "If our Lord does not have mercy on us and forgive us, we are ruined."
Your Lord is Best Aware of what is in your minds. If ye are righteous, then lo! He was ever Forgiving unto those who turn (unto Him).
By the heaven containing pathways,
When we are dead and turned to dust and bones, shall we be recompensed?"
When the heaven shall be cleft,
God has lightened your burden as He knows you are weak: So, if there are a hundred men of firm determination among you, they will vanquish two hundred; and if there are a thousand of you they will vanquish two thousand by the will of God, for God is with those who are determined.
that it is He who is the Lord of Sirius;
If thou wouldst wonder, surely wonderful is their saying, 'What, when we are dust shall we indeed then be raised up again in new creation?' Those are they that disbelieve in their Lord; those -- on their necks are fetters; those shall be the inhabitants of the Fire, therein dwelling forever.
And beside the two there will be two other Gardens.
Or are they planning a conspiracy? So the conspiracy will befall only upon the disbelievers.
and ten nights,
It is they who rejected the communications of their Lord, and the encounter with Him. So their works are in vain. And on the Day of Resurrection, We will consider them of no weight.
So remind [O Muhammad], for you are not, by the favor of your Lord, a soothsayer or a madman.
They said, "You are always remembering Joseph. By God, it will either make you sick or you will die".
And when We delivered you from the folk of Pharaoh who were visiting you with evil chastisement, slaying your sons, and sparing your women -- and in that was a grievous trial from your Lord.
From God, the Lord of the steps (of progression),
And indeed he (Muhammad (Peace be upon him)) saw him [Jibrael (Gabriel)] in the clear horizon (towards the east).
Whenever an assembly of his nation passed by him as he was building the Ark, they mocked him. Whereupon he said: 'If you mock us, we shall indeedmock you, just as you mock.
And indeed hell is the promise for all of them.
affording neither shade, nor protection from the flames,
Surely those who do not expect to meet Us, who are gratified with the life of the world and content with it, and are heedless of Our signs,
O you who believe, follow the path shown to you by God, and seek the way of proximity to Him, and struggle in His way: you may have success.
loving and of equal age.
a Messenger who rehearses to you Allah's verses that clearly expound the Guidance so that He may bring out those that believe and act righteously, from every kind of darkness into light. He will admit whosoever believes in Allah and acts righteously to Gardens beneath which rivers flow. They shall abide in them forever. For such has Allah made an excellent provision.
Thus does Allah seal up the hearts of those who know not [the proofs and evidence of the Oneness of Allah i.e. those who try not to understand true facts that which you (Muhammad SAW) have brought to them].
Lo! we are laden with debt!
You are calling them to a Straight Way,
And if you are in doubt about what We have sent down upon Our Servant [Muhammad], then produce a surah the like thereof and call upon your witnesses other than Allah, if you should be truthful.
he says, "These are ancient legends".
And We placed between them and the towns which We had blessed, towns easy to be seen, and We made the stages (of journey) between them easy (saying): "Travel in them safely both by night and day."
Had We pleased We could have shown them to you that you could know them by their marks, and recognise them from the way they twist their words. Yet God knows all your deeds.
Alif. Lam. Ra. These are the verses of the Book, and a Qur'an luminous.
Say, "I have been commanded to serve God, dedicating my worship entirely to Him.
They said, "Who has done this to our gods? He must indeed be some man of impiety!"
And give good news to those who have faith and do righteous deeds, that for them shall be gardens with streams running in them: whenever they are provided with their fruit for nourishment, they will say, 'This is what we were provided before,' and they were given something resembling it. There will be chaste mates for them, and they will remain therein [forever].
And when he arrived at the well of Midian, he found around it a group of men watering their flocks, and he saw two women standing apart from them, who were holding back their flocks, so he asked, "What is the matter with you?" They replied, "We cannot draw water until the shepherds take away their sheep. Our father is a very old man."
She placed a screen (to screen herself) from them; then We sent to her Our Ruh [angel Jibrael (Gabriel)], and he appeared before her in the form of a man in all respects.
they and their spouses, reclining upon couches in the shade;
If one asks, "To which day have such calamitous events been postponed?"
Blessed is He who sent down the criterion to His servant, that it may be an admonition to all creatures;-
They are in ranks with Allah. Allah sees what they do.
Let not believers take disbelievers as allies rather than believers. And whoever [of you] does that has nothing with Allah, except when taking precaution against them in prudence. And Allah warns you of Himself, and to Allah is the [final] destination.
And those who believe in Allah and the Last Day will not seek exemption from you for not fighting with their wealth and their lives; and Allah well knows the pious.
We are sending the she-camel to them to test them. So watch them and be patient.
And establish the measures justly, nor decrease the due weight.
Of the cattle [some] are for burden and [some] for slaughter. Eat of what Allah has provided you and do not follow in Satan's footsteps; he is indeed your manifest enemy.
And pursue not that thou hast no knowledge of; the hearing, the sight, the heart -- all of those shall be questioned of.
And certainly some narratives have come to them wherein is prevention--
And sent against them birds, in flocks,
And recite to them the tiding of Abraham
They set aside a portion of the food We have given them for those they do not know. By God, you will surely have to answer for all you contrive!
O Prophet, when you divorce women, divorce them when they have reached their period. Count the period, and fear God your Lord. Do not expel them from their houses, nor let them go forth, except when they commit a flagrant indecency. Those are God's bounds; whosoever trespasses the bounds of God has done wrong to himself. Thou knowest not, perchance after that God will bring something new to pass.
And when it is said to them, "Kneel", they do not kneel.
He has forbidden you only carrion, blood, the flesh of the swine, and that which has been offered to other than Allah. But should someone be compelled, without being rebellious or transgressive, there shall be no sin upon him. Indeed Allah is all-forgiving, all-merciful.
Now, he to whom We have promised a good which he is going to obtain - can he be like him whom We have given the good things of this life, but who will be brought up for punishment on the Day of Judgement?
You worship whatever you wish besides Him.' Say, 'The losers are those who ruin themselves and their families on the Day of Resurrection.' Indeed, that is a manifest loss!
Say, "Indeed those who fabricate lies against Allah will never succeed."
and united their hearts. Had you spent all that is in the earth, you could not have united their hearts, but Allah united them together. Indeed He is all-mighty, all-wise.
And when she had given birth to the child, she said: "O Lord, I have delivered but a girl." -- But God knew better what she had delivered: A boy could not be as that girl was. "I have named her Mary," (she said), "and I give her into Your keeping. Preserve her and her children from Satan the ostracized."
After this, He spread out the earth,
Whereupon he called her from beneath her: "Do not worry; your Lord has placed a stream beneath you.
They said, "By God, you will not stop remembering Joseph, until you have ruined your health, or you have passed away."
This is the true story. There is no god but God, and assuredly God is the All-mighty, the All-wise.
Allah has made the Ka'bah the Sacred House, as an establishment for people; and the Sacred Month, and the offering, and the necklaces, in order that you know that Allah has knowledge of all that is in the heavens and the earth; and that Allah has knowledge of all things.
They said: "You are only one of those bewitched!
and the shadow of a dense black smoke,
(Muhammad), say, "I seek protection from the Cherisher of mankind,
Whatever is with you, will be exhausted, and whatever with Allah (of good deeds) will remain. And those who are patient, We will certainly pay them a reward in proportion to the best of what they used to do.
That is (the Bounty) whereof Allah gives Glad Tidings to His Servants who believe and do righteous deeds. Say: "No reward do I ask of you for this except the love of those near of kin." And if any one earns any good, We shall give him an increase of good in respect thereof: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Ready to appreciate (service).
And there are men who say: "Our Lord! Give us good in this world and good in the Hereafter, and defend us from the torment of the Fire!"
Both of them raced to the door, and she (grabbed and) rent his shirt from behind. They met her lord outside the door. "There is no other penalty for a man," said she, "who wanted to outrage your wife but imprisonment or grievous punishment."
God advances the example of a man who is owned (as slave in common) by a number of men at loggerheads, and another man who is owned by only one. Are these two alike in attribute? God be praised; yet many of them do not know.
That was because their Messengers came to them with the clear signs; but they disbelieved, so God seized them. Surely He is All-strong, terrible in retribution.
Say, "I have no control over any harm or benefit to myself, except by the will of God. For every people, however, there is an appointed term. When the end of their term arrives, they cannot postpone it for an hour, nor can they advance it."
Those who reject the Book and that with which We have sent Our Apostle; but they shall soon come to know,
He who purifies himself,
Whenever there comes to them a sign from Allah, they say: 'We will not believe until we are given what was given to the Messengers of Allah.' Allah knows best where to place His message. Soon shall these wicked ones meet with humiliation and severe chastigement from Allah for all their evil plotting.
Why, were there gods in earth and heaven other than God, they would surely go to ruin; so glory be to God, the Lord of the Throne, above that they describe!
So they both set out again; until they came to the people of a dwelling - they asked its people for food - they refused to invite them - then in the village they both found a wall about to collapse, and the chosen bondman straightened it; said Moosa, "If you wished, you could have taken some wages for it!"
Verily, those who disbelieve [by concealing the truth about Prophet Muhammad SAW and his message of true Islamic Monotheism written with them in the Taurat (Torah) and the Injeel (Gospel)] and prevent (mankind) from the Path of Allah (Islamic Monotheism), they have certainly strayed far away. (Tafsir Al-Qurtubi). (See V. 7:157)
"This is the Hell which you used to give the lie to."
And Moosa prayed, "Our Lord! You have given Firaun and his chiefs adornment and wealth in the life of this world, our Lord, that they may lead astray from Your path; our Lord! Destroy their riches and harden their hearts so that they may not accept faith until they witness the painful punishment."
Surely We will ease his way unto the state of ease.
Say, "I am not something original among the messengers, nor do I know what will be done with me or with you. I only follow that which is revealed to me, and I am not but a clear warner."
And [recall] when Moses prayed for water for his people, so We said, "Strike with your staff the stone." And there gushed forth from it twelve springs, and every people knew its watering place. "Eat and drink from the provision of Allah, and do not commit abuse on the earth, spreading corruption."
And detain them, for they will be questioned."
Say. 'Truth has come; falsehood originates not, nor brings again.'
It may be that you (O Muhammad SAW) are going to kill yourself with grief, that they do not become believers [in your Risalah (Messengership) and in your Message of Islamic Monotheism].
It has seven gates; for every gate is of them a portion designated."
And establish them in the country; and to make the Pharaoh, Haman and their hordes beware of what they feared from them.
"O company of jinn and mankind, did there not come to you messengers from among you, relating to you My verses and warning you of the meeting of this Day of yours?" They will say, "We bear witness against ourselves"; and the worldly life had deluded them, and they will bear witness against themselves that they were disbelievers.
And We gave him the good news of Ishaq, a prophet among the good ones.
And the earth, how We spread it out, and set on it mountains, and grew in it all kinds of delightful pairs?
It will be said (to them): "Call upon your 'partners' (for help)": they will call upon them, but they will not listen to them; and they will see the Penalty (before them); (how they will wish) 'if only they had been open to guidance!'
Surely the God-fearing shall be in Gardens and bliss,
and with them will be maidens, of restrained glances with big [beautiful] eyes,
These are two disputants who have disputed concerning their Lord. As for the unbelievers, for them garments of fire shall, be cut, and there shall be poured over their heads boiling water
If you divorce them before the marriage is consummated, but after their dower money has been settled, give them the half of their dower money, unless they [the women] agree to forego it, or the man [the husband] in whose hand lies the marriage knot foregoes it. To forego is nearer to righteousness. Do not neglect any chance of behaving benevolently towards each other. God is observant of whatever you do.
The day they will see the angels, there will be no good news for the guilty on that day, and they will say, 'Keep off [from paradise]!'
saying, 'It is nothing but traditional sorcery.
by those that outstrip them suddenly,
Say: "O ye men! Now Truth hath reached you from your Lord! those who receive guidance, do so for the good of their own souls; those who stray, do so to their own loss: and I am not (set) over you to arrange your affairs."
We had given him great power in the land and all kinds of resources.
And in order to expose them who turned hypocrites; and it was said to them, "Come, fight in Allah's cause, or repel the enemy"; they answered, "If we knew how to fight, we would certainly have been with you"; and on that day they were nearer to open disbelief than to professed faith; they utter with their mouths what is not in their hearts; and Allah knows well what they hide. -
Allah has bestowed His gifts of sustenance more freely on some of you than on others: those more favoured are not going to throw back their gifts to those whom their right hands possess, so as to be equal in that respect. Will they then deny the favours of Allah?
Which, then, of the benefits of your Lord will ye twain belie?
Verily, in this is an instructive admonition for whosoever fears Allah.
for taking usury, when they had been forbidden to do so. And because of their devouring people's wealth wrongfully. We have prepared a painful punishment for those of them who [continue to] deny the truth.
By your Lord, We will gather them and the satans, and We shall parade them hobbling on their knees in Gehenna:
For verily thou (Muhammad) canst not make the dead to hear, nor canst thou make the deaf to hear the call when they have turned to flee.
Yes. [We are] Able [even] to proportion his fingertips.
We have not sent thee but as a universal (Messenger) to men, giving them glad tidings, and warning them (against sin), but most men understand not.
It is these upon whom Allah has laid His curse: so He made them deaf and deprived them of their sight.
It is He who created you from a single cell, and from it created its mate, that you may live as companions. When the man covered the woman she conceived a light burden and carried it about. And when she was heavy (with child) they prayed together to their Lord: "If You bestow a healthy son on us we shall truly be grateful."
If you [have reason to] fear from a people betrayal, throw [their treaty] back to them, [putting you] on equal terms. Indeed, Allah does not like traitors.
Again, what do you know what the Day of Recompense is?
And We send the winds fertilising, and cause water to descend from the sky, and give it you to drink. It is not ye who are the holders of the store thereof.
Tidings containing a deterrent have come to them
Thereafter We substituted ease in place of adversity until they abounded and said: even Thus tribulation and prosperity touched our fathers. Then We laid hold of them of a sudden, while they perceived not.
By thy Lord, then, We shall surely gather them and the satans; thereafter We shall surely bring them round Hell, kneeling. *Chapter: 19
What! Has your Lord then favoured you with sons and Himself adopted females from among the angels? What you say is monstrous.
O ye who believe! Take not into your intimacy those outside your ranks: They will not fail to corrupt you. They only desire your ruin: Rank hatred has already appeared from their mouths: What their hearts conceal is far worse. We have made plain to you the Signs, if ye have wisdom.
Yes, whoever fulfills his commitments and is wary of Allah - Allah indeed loves the Godwary.
Why, then, have armlets of gold not been set upon him, or angels sent along with him?
And there were, among the desert Arabs (also), men who made excuses and came to claim exemption; and those who were false to Allah and His Messenger (merely) sat inactive. Soon will a grievous penalty seize the Unbelievers among them.
None touch it except the purified.
On the contrary, We will write down what he says and prolong the length of his punishment.
Have they not seen how God begins the creation and then turns it back? This is not difficult at all for God.
And you cannot escape from Allah (i.e. His Punishment) in the earth, and besides Allah you have neither any Wali (guardian or a protector) nor any helper.
And they will say to their skins, "Why have you testified against us?" They will say, "We were made to speak by Allah, who has made everything speak; and He created you the first time, and to Him you are returned.
Do not be like those who turned into quarrelling sects after receiving clear authoritative evidence. They will suffer a great torment.
A guidance and an advice for the people of intellect.
And indeed We know that they say, "This Qur'an is being taught by some other man"; the one they refer to speaks a foreign language, whereas this is clear Arabic!
The day We shall usher the righteous before Ar-Rahman like envoys into the presence of a king,
Or a treasure should have been given to him, or he should have had an orchard from which he could eat." And these wicked people say: "You only follow a man ensorcelled."
They will all be brought together before Us.
and when he turns his back, he hastens about the earth, to do corruption there and to destroy the tillage and the stock; and God loves not corruption;
O believers, be patient, and vie you in patience; be steadfast; fear God; haply so you will prosper.
Who has fed them, [saving them] from hunger and made them safe, [saving them] from fear.
Saying, "O our misfortune! Who has raised us from our sleep? This is what the Most Gracious had promised, and the Noble Messengers had spoken the truth!"
He it is Who shapes you in the wombs as He pleases. La ilaha illa Huwa (none has the right to be worshipped but He), the All-Mighty, the All-Wise.
'Our Lord, fulfil what You promised to us through Your Messengers, and disgrace us not on the Day of Resurrection; indeed You never go back on Your promise.
That Day will every soul be requited for what it earned; no injustice will there be that Day, for Allah is Swift in taking account.
Do they envy those people for what Allah has given them out of His bounty? We have certainly given the progeny of Abraham the Book and wisdom, and We have given them a great sovereignty.
And [commanded], 'Direct your face toward the religion, inclining to truth, and never be of those who associate others with Allah;
Then whosoever hath worked good of an atom's weight shall behold it
Preach the Quran to those who are concerned about the Day of Judgment at which time they will be brought before their Lord. Tell them that their only guardian and intercessor is God so that they may become pious.
And ask forgiveness of your Lord, and then repent unto him; verily my Lord is Merciful, Loving.
Your Lord gives abundantly to whom He will and sparingly to whom He pleases. He is informed and observant about His servants.
And those who of their trusts and their covenant are keepers.
Put your hand into your pocket. It will come out sheer white but unharmed. This is one of the nine miracles which shall be showing to the Pharaoh and his people; they are truly wicked men."
He said: "Give me respite till the day they are raised up."
Roasting in a scorching Fire.
We have not heard of this in the last religion; this is surely an invention.
That you may believe in Allah and His Apostle and may aid him and revere him; and (that) you may declare His glory, morning and evening.
when man asks, "What is happening to her?";
As Hospitality from an All-Forgiving, Merciful One."
Now We have sent down signs making all clear; God guides whomsoever He will to a straight path.
O ye who believe! save yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is Men and Stones, over which are (appointed) angels stern (and) severe, who flinch not (from executing) the Commands they receive from Allah, but do (precisely) what they are commanded.
And when I have proportioned him and breathed into him of My [created] soul, then fall down to him in prostration."
therein they shall abide for ever. They shall find none to protect or help them.
When the youths took refuge in the Cave saying, 'Our lord, give us mercy from Thee, and furnish us with rectitude in our affair.'
Adam was inspired by some words (of prayer) through which he received forgiveness from his Lord, for He is All-forgiving and All-merciful.
From a spring of which the votaries of God will drink and make it flow in abundance.
Surely with difficulty is ease.
Solomon smiled broadly at its words and said, "Lord, inspire me to be thankful for the blessings You have granted me and my parents, and to do good deeds that please You; and include me, by Your grace, among Your righteous servants!"
Said Iblis, "I am better than him; You made me from fire, and You have created him from clay!"
All the people turned away from him
He said, 'My Lord! Respite me till the day they will be resurrected.'
Or [the state of a disbeliever] is like the darkness in a vast deep sea, overwhelmed with a great wave topped by a great wave, topped by dark clouds, darkness, one above another, if a man stretches out his hand, he can hardly see it! And he for whom Allah has not appointed light, for him there is no light.
Or they say, "He (Prophet Muhammad SAW) forged it (the Quran)." Say: "Bring you then ten forged Surah (chapters) like unto it, and call whomsoever you can, other than Allah (to your help), if you speak the truth!"
But he who is greedy miser and thinks himself self-sufficient.
He made those of the people of the Book who had helped (the tribes) descend from their forts, and filled their hearts with dread, so that you killed some and made many captive;
And whoever commits a fault or a sin, then accuses of it one innocent, he indeed takes upon himself the burden of a calumny and a manifest sin.
Say, 'Shall we invoke besides Allah that which can neither benefit us nor harm us, and turn back on our heels after Allah has guided us, like someone seduced by the devils and bewildered on the earth, who has companions that invite him to guidance, [saying,] ''Come to us!''?' Say, 'Indeed it is the guidance of Allah which is [true] guidance. And we have been commanded to submit to the Lord of all the worlds,
Then after that you turned away. Had it not been for the Grace and Mercy of Allah upon you, indeed you would have been among the losers.
Then why did those whom they had taken for aliha (gods) besides Allah, as a way of approach (to Allah) not help them? Nay, but they vanished completely from them (when there came the torment). And that was their lie, and their inventions which they had been inventing (before their destruction).
Fir'awn said: if thou wilt take a god other than me, I shall surely place thee among the prisoners.
Allah has promised you many gains that ye shall acquire, and He has given you these beforehand; and He has restrained the hands of men from you; that it may be a Sign for the Believers, and that He may guide you to a Straight Path;
And he who is given his ledger in his right hand
(O Muhammad!) We narrate these anecdotes of Messengers to you that We may strengthen through them your heart. In these anecdotes come to you the truth, and an exhortation, and a reminder for the believers.
Give to your relatives their due, and also to the needy and the wayfarer. Yet do not spend extravagantly;
He said, "Your prayer has been answered, so go straight, and do not follow the path of those who do not know."
And those who believe and work righteous works and believe in that which hath been revealed Unto Muhammad -and it is the truth from their Lord- He shall expiate their misdeeds from them and shall make good their state.
His heart lies not of what he saw;
Then when the magicians were come, Musa said unto them: cast down that which ye are going to cast down.
And say, "Do [as you will], for Allah will see your deeds, and [so, will] His Messenger and the believers. And you will be returned to the Knower of the unseen and the witnessed, and He will inform you of what you used to do."
They invoke none but females besides Him, and invoke none but a froward Satan,
And recall when We said to you, (O Muhammad), that your Lord encompasses these people; and that We have made that vision that We have shown you, and the tree accursed in the Qur'an, but as a trial for people. We go about warning them, but each warning leads them to greater transgression.
And the mountains as pegs?
Who, then, doth more wrong than one who utters a lie concerning Allah, and rejects the Truth when it comes to him; is there not in Hell an abode for blasphemers?
nor any food except pus,
If you question them, they will say: 'We were only plunging and playing' Say: 'Were you mocking Allah, His verses, and His Messenger?
Truly God was gracious to the believers when He raised up among them a Messenger from themselves, to recite to them His signs and to purify them, and to teach them the Book and the Wisdom, though before they were in manifest error.
No compulsion is there in religion. Rectitude has become clear from error. So whosoever disbelieves in idols and believes in God, has laid hold of the most firm handle, unbreaking; God is All-hearing, All-knowing.
Indeed, that is how We deal with the criminals.
And if ye call them toward guidance they follow you not: it is the same to you whether ye call them or are silent.
How many favours of your Lord will you then deny?
Nor would thy Lord be the One to destroy communities for a single wrong-doing, if its members were likely to mend.
Believers, why is it that when you are told to march for the cause of God, you seem to linger at home. Have you given preference to the worldly life over the life hereafter? The worldly gains compared to those of the next life are but very little.
and a multitude from the latter [ones].
and We gave them of Our Mercy and We appointed to them a truthful, highly sincere tongue,
And if We will, We shall drown them, and there will be no shout (or helper) for them (to hear their cry for help) nor will they be saved.
and God ordained this only as good news for you so that your hearts might be comforted, help comes only from God, the Powerful, the Wise One,
And he had property (or fruit) and he said to his companion, in the course of mutual talk: I am more than you in wealth and stronger in respect of men." [See Tafsir Qurtubi, Vol. 10, Page 403].
God has set a seal on their hearts and on their hearing, and over their vision is a veil. They will have a severe torment.
About the criminals,
It will not be an offense for the wives of the Prophet (not to observe the modest dress) in the presence of their fathers, sons, brothers, sons of their brothers and sisters, their own women, and their slave-girls. They should have fear of God. God witness all things.
And if he [i.e., the Prophets] had forged this Discourse and thereafter ascribed it to Us,
So for some people, we gave the same task.
God - there is no god except He. He will gather you to the Day of Resurrection, in which there is no doubt. And who speaks more truly than God?
And clusters of banana plants.
And bear patiently what they say and avoid them with a becoming avoidance.
In case he divorces you, his Lord will give him better wives in return, who will be modest, true believers, obedient to God, repentant, observant of prayer and fasting, both widows and virgins.
The Day that He assembles you (all) for a Day of Assembly,- that will be a Day of mutual loss and gain (among you), and those who believe in Allah and work righteousness,- He will remove from them their ills, and He will admit them to Gardens beneath which Rivers flow, to dwell therein for ever: that will be the Supreme Achievement.
And his spouse and his son--
falsehood comes not to it from before it nor from behind it; a sending down from One All-wise, All-laudable.
By the Qur'an full of wisdom.
How can a warning benefit them? The Apostle who explained all things clearly had come to them,
And in the earth there are tracts side by side and gardens of grapes and corn and palm trees having one root and (others) having distinct roots-- they are watered with one water, and We make some of them excel others in fruit; most surely there are signs in this for a people who understand.
And your Lord declared He would send men against them who would inflict dreadful suffering on them till the Day of Doom, for your Lord is swift in retribution, though He is certainly forgiving and kind.
They said, 'We miss the king's goblet.' 'Whoever brings it shall have a camel-load [of grain],' [said the steward], 'I will guarantee that.'
though before that, before it was sent down upon them, they were in despair.
The disbelieving leaders of his people said, "Indeed we consider you foolish and think you are a liar."
Say: 'Await! I shall be awaiting with you.'
They said, 'We did not fail our tryst with you of our own accord, but we were laden with the weight of those people's ornaments, and we cast them [into the fire] and so did the Samiri.'
And when they were told, 'Settle in this town and eat thereof whence you wish; and say, ''Relieve [us of the burden of our sins],'' and enter prostrating at the gate, that We may forgive your iniquities, and soon We shall enhance the virtuous.'
Yet why should God not punish them, when they are turning others away from the Sacred Mosque, although they are not its custodians? Its rightful custodians are the pious; but most of them do not know.
And those in the Fire will say to the keepers of Hell, "Call to your Lord to lessen our suffering for one day."
I had no knowledge of the exalted chiefs when they contended:
His friend said to him, as he conversed with him, "Are you being ungrateful to Him who created you from dust, then from a sperm-drop, then evolved you into a man?
He who warns you is one of the warners of old.
Said He, 'You are indeed among the reprieved
And he said to him whom he knew would be delivered of the two: Remember me with your lord; but the Shaitan caused him to forget mentioning (it) to his lord, so he remained in the prison a few years.
Listen! This was what you argued about - of which you have some knowledge - why do you then argue about the matter you do not have any knowledge of? And Allah knows whereas you do not know.
and a large group of those of later times.
Hast thou seen if he denieth (Allah's guidance) and is froward?
Fight in the cause of Allah those who fight you, but do not transgress limits; for Allah loveth not transgressors.
and We delivered Moses and his companions, all of them,
by the House greatly frequented;
And about halfway through this project, I defined "sonder," the idea that we all think of ourselves as the main character and everyone else is just extras.
Verily he [i.e., Jesus) is a portent of the Hour. So be in no doubt concerning it and follow Me. This is the Straight Way.
But whoever will turn away (from the Truth),
except his wife (about whom Allah says that) We have decreed that she shall be among those who stay behind."
(Laughter) How much would you pay for them now?
Allah is Creator of all things, and He is Guardian over all things.
Do not use your property among yourselves in illegal ways and then deliberately bribe the rulers with your property so that you may wrongly acquire the property of others.
And We had certainly given Moses nine evident signs, so ask the Children of Israel [about] when he came to them and Pharaoh said to him, "Indeed I think, O Moses, that you are affected by magic."
If you divorce your wives before the consummation of the marriage and the amount of dowry has been fixed, pay your wives half of the amount of their dowry unless she or her guardians drop their demand for payment. To drop such a demand is closer to piety. Be generous to each other. God is Well-Aware of what you do.
O ye who believe! remember Allah's favour on you when a people determined to stretch forth their hands against you, but he withheld their hands from you, And fear Allah, and in Allah let the believers trust.
What makes you to know what the Resurrection Verifier is?
And He it is Who has brought you to life, then He will cause you to die, then bring you to life (again); most surely man is ungrateful.
And (remember) Nuh (Noah), when he cried (to Us) aforetime. We listened to his invocation and saved him and his family from great distress.
But whenever any good came to them, they would say, 'This is our due.' And if any ill visited them, they took it for ill omens attending Moses and those who were with him. (Look! Indeed the cause of their ill omens is from Allah, but most of them do not know.)
And those who glide swimmingly,
Therefore, (O Prophet), have patience. Surely Allah's promise is true. Let those who lack certainty not cause you to be unsteady.
Enter the Garden, ye and your spouses, joyfully.
They say: Came not your messengers unto you with clear proofs? They say: Yea, verily. They say: Then do ye pray, although the prayer of disbelievers is in vain.
When I have completed shaping him and have breathed into him of My Spirit, then fall you down before him in prostration."
And this life of the world is only amusement and play! Verily, the home of the Hereafter, that is the life indeed (i.e. the eternal life that will never end), if they but knew
If We had sent down this Qur'an to a mountain you would have seen it turn desolate and split into two for fear of God. We offer these examples to men that they may think and reflect.
And We sent, following in their footsteps, Jesus son of Mary, confirming the Torah before him and We gave to him the Gospel, wherein is guidance and light, and confirming the Torah before it, as a guidance and an admonition unto the godfearing.
And they conspired an immense conspiracy.
Had your Lord willed, He would have made mankind a single nation. But they continue in their differences
On the Day of Resurrection, you will see those who told lies about God with their faces blackened. Is there not a place in Hell for the arrogant?
and thus they gave the lie to the Truth that has now come to them. Soon they will come upon some news concerning what they had mocked at.
And uphold my name with posterity,
Tell them: "The angel of death who has been charged with your souls shall gather you, and then you shall be brought back to your Lord."
At the beginning, I was just looking for a wall in my hometown, and it happened that the minaret was built in '94.
Did We not destroy the earlier peoples?
You shall certainly taste the painful punishment:
These actions can pollute the air, making it toxic to anyone or anything that inhales it.
It is You we worship, and upon You we call for help.
When We let the people taste mercy after hardship has visited them, lo, they have a device concerning Our signs. Say: 'God is swifter at devising; surely Our messengers are writing down what you are devising.'
So it is likelier that they will bear testimony in proper form, or else they will be afraid that oaths may be rejected after their oaths. Fear Allah, and listen; Allah does not guide the people of the evildoers.
And fill up the measure when you measure, and weigh with the straight balance; that is better and fairer in the issue.
So they routed them by Allah's leave and David slew Goliath; and Allah gave him the kingdom and wisdom, and taught him of that which He willeth. And if Allah had not repelled some men by others the earth would have been corrupted. But Allah is a Lord of Kindness to (His) creatures.
Hast thou not seen that Allah, He it is Whom all who are in the heavens and the earth praise, and the birds in their flight? Of each He knoweth verily the worship and the praise; and Allah is Aware of what they do.
Jinn and mankind, We shall certainly settle your accounts.
or that they be made of gold. Surely all this is only the enjoyment of the life of the world. But (true prosperity) in the Hereafter with Your Lord is only for the God-fearing.
That is so! Whoever retaliates similarly to the affliction he was made to suffer, and then he is wronged again, God will definitely assist him. God is Pardoning and Forgiving.
That We may produce therewith corn and vegetables,
Then He Istawa (rose over) towards the heaven when it was smoke, and said to it and to the earth: "Come both of you willingly or unwillingly." They both said: "We come, willingly."
Till you reach the grave.
So when they felt Our punishment, lo! they began to fly
And the shade of black smoke.
and there shall be wide-eyed maidens,
Then which of the Blessings of your Lord will you both (jinns and men) deny?
Every time they wish to get away therefrom, from anguish, they will be forced back therein, and (it will be said), "Taste ye the Penalty of Burning!"
Have you considered the fire you kindle?
Those whom Allah guides are rightly guided; but for those whom He leads astray you shall find no guardian, other than Him. On the Day of Resurrection We shall gather all of them upon their faces, blind, dumb, deaf. Gehenna shall be their refuge, whenever it dwindles, We will increase the Blaze for them.
"O my Lord! Grant me a righteous (son)!"
Say: 'See what is in the heavens and the earth' But neither signs nor warnings help the unbelievers.
So, when they forgot (the warning) with which they had been reminded, We opened to them the gates of every (pleasant) thing, until in the midst of their enjoyment in that which they were given, all of a sudden, We took them to punishment, and lo! They were plunged into destruction with deep regrets and sorrows.
But ye turned back thereafter: Had it not been for the Grace and Mercy of Allah to you, ye had surely been among the lost.
And We will ease you toward ease.
We gave them this reward - the recompense of their ingratitude; and whom do We punish, except the ungrateful?
When their brother Salih said to them: Will you not guard (against evil)?
We sent not forth any before thee, but men We revealed to of the people living in the cities. Have they not journeyed in the land? Have they not beheld how was the end of those before them?. Surely the abode of the world to come is better for those that are godfearing. What, do you not understand?
The Day of Judgement.
When the earth is shaken violently,
There is indeed a sign in that, but most of them do not have faith.
Say, 'Spend willingly or unwillingly, it shall never be accepted from you; for you are indeed a transgressing lot.'
We have sent you with the Truth to proclaim good news and to warn. Never has there been a nation but a warner came to it.
(Remember also) Qarun, Pharaoh, and Haman: there came to them Moses with Clear Signs, but they behaved with insolence on the earth; yet they could not overreach (Us).
Say: (O Muhammad SAW) "He will give life to them Who created them for the first time! And He is the All-Knower of every creation!"
And We have made (this Scripture) easy in thy language only that they may heed.
and fair maidens with large, lustrous eyes
They are so afraid of you that had there been a place for them to seek refuge, a cave or some entrance in which to hide themselves from you, they would have madly rushed therein.
What is the matter with you? How do you judge!
Some of the Pharaohs people said, "Will you let Moses and his people destroy the land and disregard you and your gods?" The Pharaoh said, "We will kill their sons and leave their women alive; they are under our domination."
Aye, ye will behold it with sure vision.
But, [on the contrary], We have provided good things for these [disbelievers] and their fathers until life was prolonged for them. Then do they not see that We set upon the land, reducing it from its borders? So it is they who will overcome?
See to what they liken you! But they are lost and cannot find the right path.
(Muhammad), do not be deceived by the changing activities of the unbelievers in different parts of the land.
But those who believe and do deeds of righteousness, We shall soon admit to Gardens, with rivers flowing beneath,- their eternal home: Therein shall they have companions pure and holy: We shall admit them to shades, cool and ever deepening.
And We gave them precise rulings. They fell into dispute only after knowledge came to them, out of mutual rivalry. Your Lord will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection regarding the things they differed about.
Then they proceeded: until, when they met a young man, he slew him. Moses said: "Hast thou slain an innocent person who had slain none? Truly a foul (unheard of) thing hast thou done!"
And he said, "You have chosen idols instead of God, out of affection for one another in the worldly life. But then, on the Day of Resurrection, you will disown one another, and curse one another. Your destiny is Hell, and you will have no saviors."
and my chest will become constricted and my tongue will not be loosed (in my speech), therefore, send to Aaron.
No indeed; but upon that day they shall be veiled from their Lord,
So it has been that We did not send any warner to a town before you, without its affluent ones saying, 'We found our fathers following a creed and we are indeed following in their footsteps.'
And [by] the sky and He who constructed it
God gave you victory in the battle of Badr where your forces were much weaker than those of the enemy. Have fear of God so that you may give Him thanks.
He said, "My Lord, prison is more to my liking than that to which they invite me. And if You do not avert from me their plan, I might incline toward them and [thus] be of the ignorant."
'Eat and take your joy a little; you are sinners!'
(They will say): "Our Lord! Remove the torment from us, really we shall become believers!"
And leave thou the sea divided: verily they are a host to be drowned.
If God had not prescribed exile for them, He would surely have punished them in this world. But they shall have the torment of Fire in the Hereafter,
They will [enter to] burn in an intensely hot Fire.
And who is more unjust than he who forges a lie against Allah? These shall be brought before their Lord, and the witnesses shall say: These are they who lied against their Lord. Now surely the curse of Allah is on the unjust.
He only enjoins you evil and indecency, and that you may speak against Allah what you do not know.
Propound thou unto them the similitude of two men. We appointed to one of them two gardens of vine and hedged both with date- palms, and We placed in-between the twain tillage.
And then they cast lots and he was the one who lost,
and surely he loves riches with a passionate loving.
"Nay," they say, "(these are) medleys of dream! - Nay, He forged it! - Nay, He is (but) a poet! Let him then bring us a Sign like the ones that were sent to (Prophets) of old!"
He said, "I certainly hate what you practice.
In the end both will be in the Fire, and will abide in it. That is the recompense of the wrong-doers.
then pour over his head the chastisement of boiling water!'
And among the bedouin Arabs there are such as regard whatever they spend (in the Way of Allah) as a fine and wait for some misfortune to befall you. May ill fortune befall them! Allah is All-Hearing, All-Knowing.
So We delivered him and those with him by mercy from Us, and We cut off the last of those who rejected Our communications and were not believers.
Is one who is obedient to Allah, prostrating himself or standing (in prayer) during the hours of the night, fearing the Hereafter and hoping for the Mercy of his Lord (like one who disbelieves)? Say: "Are those who know equal to those who know not?" It is only men of understanding who will remember (i.e. get a lesson from Allah's Signs and Verses).
Verily We! thus We compense the well-doers.
And do not be like those who say, "We have heard," while they do not hear.
If they ignore (your message), tell them, "I have warned you against a destructive blast of sound like that which struck the people of `Ad and Thamud.
endowed with power and held in honour by the Lord of the Throne --
They further demanded Moses to ask the Lord what color the cow has to be. Moses answered, "The Lord says that the cow must be yellow, a beautiful yellow".
And other faces that Day will be dust-stained,
Am I not better than this wretch who cannot even speak clearly?
He said: My Lord! when shall there be a son (born) to me, and old age has already come upon me, and my wife is barren? He said: even thus does Allah what He pleases.
When the flood rose high and covered the whole land, We carried you in the Ark.
Say: "Enough is Allah for a witness between me and you: for He is well acquainted with His servants, and He sees (all things).
This is the Bounty of Allah. It is sufficient that Allah is the Knowledgeable.
Weeping, they fall down on their faces, and it increases them in humility.'
We said: O fire! be a comfort and peace to Ibrahim;
That is how We let it pass through the hearts of the guilty:
Then he who is given his Record in his right hand,
O you who believe! Eat not Riba (usury) doubled and multiplied, but fear Allah that you may be successful.
let them worship the Lord of this House,
(As for) these, their reward is that upon them is the curse of Allah and the angels and of men, all together.
"Enter the gates of hell, to remain in it forever"; so what a wretched destination for the haughty!
And, O my people! let not the cleavage with me incite you so that there befall you the like of that which befell the people of Nuh and the people of Hud and the people of Saleh; and the people of Lut are not from you far away.
the Fire, to which they are exposed morning and evening. On the day when the Hour sets in, Pharaoh's clan will enter the severest punishment.
We raised a Messenger in every community (to tell them): "Serve Allah and shun the Evil One." Thereafter Allah guided some of them while others were overtaken by error. Go about the earth, then, and observe what was the end of those who rejected the Messengers, calling them liars.
Allah only made it to be glad tidings and so that your hearts may be satisfied; victory comes only from Allah; He is Almighty, Wise.
(It will be) a Day when they will be tried (and tested) over the Fire!
Allah is the Guardian of the Muslims - He removes them from realms of darkness towards light; and the supporters of disbelievers are the devils - they remove them from light towards the realms of darkness; it is they who are the people of fire; they will remain in it forever.
Which then of the bounties of your Lord will you deny?
The decree from Me will not be changed, and I am not unjust to the servants."
In fact, the Hour of Doom is the time for them to suffer. The suffering of this hour is the most calamitous and the most bitter (of all suffering).
To his left is his student. She's six.
"Taste you your trial (burning)! This is what you used to ask to be hastened!"
The botanical names are in front of you.
God has promised you many future gains, and He has given you these in advance; and He has restrained the hands of men from harming you, so that it may be a sign for the believers, and so that He may guide you to a straight path.
We could send down from the heavens a sign to them if We pleased, before which their heads would remain bowed.
He only orders you to evil and immorality and to say about Allah what you do not know.
Say, 'It is He who created you, and made for you hearing, eyesight, and hearts. Little do you thank.'
Then We fulfilled Our promise to them and We saved them and those with them whom We pleased, and We destroyed those who exceeded all bounds.
I created the jinn and humankind only that they might worship Me.
And the stupor of death will come in truth; that is what you were trying to escape.
And fulfill the covenant of Allah when you have made a covenant, and do not break the oaths after making them fast, and you have indeed made Allah a surety for you; surely Allah knows what you do.
With this water He produces for you crops, and olives, and dates, and grapes, and all kinds of fruit; indeed in this is a sign for people who ponder.
Pharaoh said, "Bring me every experienced sorcerer."
And if a woman fears ill usage or desertion on the part of her husband, there is no blame on them, if they effect a reconciliation between them, and reconciliation is better, and avarice has been made to be present in the (people's) minds; and if you do good (to others) and guard (against evil), then surely Allah is aware of what you do.
Creation of the heavens and the earth, alternation of night and day, and sailing of ships across the ocean with what is useful to man, and the rain that God sends from the sky enlivening the earth that was dead, and the scattering of beasts of all kinds upon it, and the changing of the winds, and the clouds which remain obedient between earth and sky, are surely signs for the wise.
And do not plead on behalf of those who deceive themselves; indeed Allah does not like any treacherous, excessive sinner.
Thus We recompense those who are unjust and have no faith in Our revelations. The torment in the life to come will be more severe and last longer.
Then which of the Blessings of your Lord will you both (jinns and men) deny?
And when those who associated partners with Allah see their (Allah's so-called) partners, they will say: "Our Lord! These are our partners whom we used to invoke besides you." But they will throw back their word at them (and say): "Surely! You indeed are liars!"
Hath not the story reached you of those who disbelieved of old and so did taste the ill-effects of their conduct, and theirs will be a painful doom.
He said: "They are close behind me, and I hastened to You, Lord, that You may be pleased with me."
Avail yourselves of the spoils you have taken as lawful and good, and be wary of Allah. Indeed Allah is all-forgiving, all-merciful.
Go to Pharaoh and say, 'We are the messengers of the Lord of the worlds,
That is your punishment (from Allah). So taste this punishment, and know that for the unbelievers is the punishment of the Fire.
Thus Allah made them taste humiliation in the life of the world, and verily the doom of the Hereafter will be greater if they did but know.
A part He hath guided, and upon a part the straying hath been justified. Verily they have taken the Satans as patrons instead of Allah and they imagine that they are guided ones.
To Allah belongs the Finest Names, so call Him by them, and keep away from those who pervert them. They shall be recompensed for the things they did.
No creature is there crawling on the earth, but its provision rests on God; He knows its lodging-place and its repository. All is in a Manifest Book.
And recall what time Allah was promising you one of the two parties that it should be yours, and ye would fain to have that the one without; Whilst Allah besought arms were yours to justify the truth by His words and to cut off the root of the infidels.
And when he turned his face towards Midian, he said: 'It may be that my Lord will guide me on the right way'
Then he began with their sacks before the sack of his brother; then he brought it forth from his brothers sack. In this wise We contrived for Yusuf. He was not one to take his brother by the law of the king, except that Allah willed. We exalt in degrees whomsoever We will, and above every knowing one is a Knower.
When Our emissaries brought the good news to Abraham, and said (to him): "We are surely going to destroy the inhabitants of this city; its inhabitants are immersed in wrong-doing."
He sends down water from the skies, which flows in channels according to their capacity, with the scum borne on the surface of the torrent, as rises the scum when metals are heated on the fire for making ornaments and household utensils. This is how God determines truth and falsehood. The scum disappears like the foam on the bank, and that which is useful to man remains on the earth. That is how God sets forth precepts of wisdom.
Nay, but they (the so-called gods) will deny their worship of them, and become opponents to them (on the Day of Resurrection).
And that my breast will tighten and my tongue will not be fluent, so send for Aaron.
They slept very little during the night
Then say to him a gentle saying; haply he may be admonished or he may fear.
And indeed the Noble Messengers came to the people of Firaun.
The one who had believed said, "O my people, follow me, and I will guide you to the path of rectitude."
They will say, "Yes, why not - indeed a Herald of Warning did come to us - in response we denied and said 'Allah has not sent down anything - you are not except in a great error'."
The deeds of those who deny the existence of their Lord are like ashes blown about by a strong wind on a stormy day. They will achieve nothing from their deeds. (What they have done) is a manifest error.
The likeness of those who take other patrons than Allah is as the likeness of the spider who taketh unto herself a house. And verily the frailest of all houses is the spider's house - if they but knew!
And the Jews say: the hand of God is fettered. Fettered be their own hands, and cursed be they for that which they have said! Aye! His both hands are wide open. He expendeth howsoever He listeth. And surely that which hath been sent down to thee from thy Lord increaseth many of them in exorbitance and infidelity. And We have cast among them enmity and spite till the Day of Judgement: so oft as they kindle the fire of War Allah extinguisheth it, and they strive after corruption in the land, and Allah approveth not the corrupters.
O you who have believed, protect yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones, over which are [appointed] angels, harsh and severe; they do not disobey Allah in what He commands them but do what they are commanded.
"Indeed My bondmen* - you do not have any power over them"; and your Lord is Sufficient as a Trustee. (* The chosen virtuous bondmen)
Yet you were ungrateful and have done the deed you did'
And kill them wherever you confront them, and expel them from where they expelled you, for persecution is graver than killing. But do not fight them near the Holy Mosque unless they fight you therein; but if they fight you, kill them; such is the requital of the faithless.
So they (too) were rushed down on their footsteps!
And should guide them unto a straight path.
You pass by them in the morning
In them (both) will be fruits, and date- palms and pomegranates.
"And our duty is only to proclaim the clear Message."
We realized that we cannot defeat God on earth, and that we cannot escape Him by fleeing.
We drown them if We will, then they have none to cry to, nor can they be saved,
So the chastisement seized them. Surely there is a Sign in this, but most of them would not believe.
When Our Decree issued, We turned (the cities) upside down, and rained down on them brimstones hard as baked clay, spread, layer on layer,-
So if you are in doubt about what We have sent down to you, ask those who read the Book [revealed] before you. The truth has certainly come to you from your Lord; so do not be among the skeptics.
By the fig and the olive,
Then We shall pluck forth from every party whichever of them was the most hardened in disdain of the All-merciful;
Then (remember) when they both submitted to Allah's command, and Ibrahim lay his son facing downwards. (The knife did not hurt Ismail)
White, delicious to the drinkers,
It is He who made you successors on the earth. So whoever is faithless, his unfaith is to his own detriment. The unfaith of the faithless does not increase them with their Lord [in anything] except disfavour, and their unfaith increases the faithless in nothing except loss.
Indeed, We have granted you, [O Muhammad], al-Kawthar.
'What' they say. 'When we are (turned to) bones and broken bits, shall we be raised again in a new creation'
And Who sends down water (rain) from the sky in due measure. Then We revive a dead land therewith, and even so you will be brought forth (from the dead),
And they worship such, other than Allah, which neither benefit nor hurt them; and the disbeliever helps the devil instead of his Lord.
And to your Lord (Alone) turn (all your intentions and hopes and) your invocations.
And who shall be averse from the faith of Ibrahim, save one who befooleth his soul! And assuredly We chose him in this World, and verily he in the Hereafter shall be of the righteous.
Indeed, Allah, in truth, has realized His Messenger's vision. You shall enter the Sacred Mosque in security if Allah wills, with hair shaven or cut short and without fear. He knew what you did not know, and granted you a near victory.
We have warned you of a chastisement which is near at hand, on the Day when man shall [clearly] see what his hands have sent ahead, and when he who has denied the truth shall say, "Oh, would that I were dust!"
Even so, We have caused it to enter into the hearts of harmdoers:
Tell the believing men to lower their gaze and be modest. That is purer for them. Lo! Allah is aware of what they do.
When Our revelations are recited to them, they turn back on their heels out of pride as if they did not hear them or their ears had been sealed off. Warn them of the painful torment.
Tell those who believe, to forgive those who do not look forward to the Days of Allah: It is for Him to recompense (for good or ill) each People according to what they have earned.
They say, "It is just fables of the ancients, which he has had written down. They are dictated to him morning and evening."
They strongly swear by God that they would march to fight (for the cause of God) if you were to order them to. Tell them, "You do not need to swear; fighting for the cause of God is a virtuous deed and God is Well Aware of what you do".
Fight in the way of Allah those who fight you, but do not transgress. Indeed Allah does not like transgressors.
Those who will be pushed faces forward into Hell will be in a worse position, farther away from the path.
Those who disbelieved and barred others from Allah's Way and opposed the Messenger after the True Guidance had become manifest to them, they shall not be able to cause Allah the least harm; rather, Allah will reduce all their works to nought.
who forgives sins, who accepts repentance, whose punishment is severe, and whose bounty is universal. He is the only Lord and to Him all things proceed.
Let any who will, keep it in remembrance!
(Moses) asked the magicians, "Cast down what you want to".
And then being among those who believed and advised one another to patience and advised one another to compassion.
Indeed whenever I have summoned them, so that You might forgive them, they would put their fingers into their ears and draw their cloaks over their heads, and they were persistent [in their unfaith], and disdainful in [their] arrogance.
Farfetched, farfetched is what you are promised.
Then We laid hold of him and his hosts and flung them into the sea, and he was reproachable.
These two antagonists dispute with each other about their Lord: But those who deny (their Lord),- for them will be cut out a garment of Fire: over their heads will be poured out boiling water.
Verily We! We have created those maidens by a creation.
Such a promise will never come true.
And We saved him and those with him in the laden ship.
"Thus will your Lord choose you and teach you the interpretation of dreams (and other things) and perfect His Favour on you and on the offspring of Ya'qub (Jacob), as He perfected it on your fathers, Ibrahim (Abraham) and Ishaque (Isaac) aforetime! Verily, your Lord is All-Knowing, All-Wise."
We sent Moses with Our signs to Pharaoh and his nobles. He said, "I am the messenger of the Lord of the Universe,"
And this is the path of your Lord, [leading] straight. We have detailed the verses for a people who remember.
Then Adam received (some) words from his Lord, so He turned to him mercifully; surely He is Oft-returning (to mercy), the Merciful.
He said, 'Certainly not! Indeed my Lord is with me. He will guide me.'
the while you are helplessly watching that he is on the verge of death,
On the day when they will be brought into the presence of their Lord, their greeting to each other will be, "Peace be with you." God has prepared an honorable reward for them.
But We raised many generations after Moses and they lived for many years. You did not dwell with the people of Midian reciting Our revelations to them, but We had certainly sent Messengers to them.
You will indeed taste a painful punishment,
They also ask: 'When will this Opening come, if what you say is true'
And as for those who have believed and done deeds of righteousness, their Lord shall admit them into His mercy; that is the manifest triumph.
And assembled together for Sulaiman were his armies of jinns and men, and of birds - so they had to be restricted.
(It will be said of such sinners), "Seize them and drag them into the middle of hell.
And your Lord knows best all who are in the heavens and the earth. And indeed, We have preferred some of the Prophets above others, and to Dawud (David) We gave the Zabur (Psalms).
And the earth and the mountains will be lifted up and crushed with a single crush.
the planets that run their course and set,
who break their established covenant with Him and the relations He has commanded to be kept and who spread evil in the land. These are the ones who lose a great deal.
Indeed, we used to supplicate Him before. Indeed, it is He who is the Beneficent, the Merciful."
And it has already come down to you in the Book that when you hear the verses of Allah [recited], they are denied [by them] and ridiculed; so do not sit with them until they enter into another conversation. Indeed, you would then be like them. Indeed Allah will gather the hypocrites and disbelievers in Hell all together -
However, those who will receive the books of the records of their deeds in their left hands will say, "We wish that this record had never been given to us
Seated in an assembly of the Truth, in the presence of Allah, the Omnipotent King.
And if any of those who associate others with Allah in His Divinity seeks asylum, grant him asylum that he may hear the Word of Allah, and then escort him to safety for they are a people who do not know.
These are the Signs of Allah: We rehearse them to thee in Truth: And Allah means no injustice to any of His creatures.
Then We sent Moses and his brother Aaron with Our tokens and a clear warrant
They carved out dwellings in the mountains, and lived in security --
(Saleh) said: "O people, why do you wish to hasten evil rather than good? Why not ask for God's forgiveness? You may well be forgiven."
And We have already written in the book [of Psalms] after the [previous] mention that the land [of Paradise] is inherited by My righteous servants.
Or that He will not seize them in their going to and fro so that there be no escape for them?
Is Allah not the Most Just of judges!
They said, "You are nothing but mortals like us; the Most Gracious has not sent down anything - you are nothing but liars."
They answered and turned towards them, "What is it you cannot find?"
If a woman and a man work full-time and have a child, the woman does twice the amount of housework the man does, and the woman does three times the amount of childcare the man does.
It is He who originates and repeats.
He gives wisdom to whom He will, and he who is given wisdom has been given a lot of good. Yet none will remember except the owners of minds.
Then, as for him whose scales are heavy (with good works),
The Messenger has believed in what was revealed to him from his Lord, as did the believers. They all have believed in God, and His angels, and His scriptures, and His messengers: "We make no distinction between any of His messengers." And they say, "We hear and we obey. Your forgiveness, our Lord. To you is the destiny."
Say, "What thing is more solemn in testimony?" Say, "God is Witness between you and me. This Quran was revealed to me, that I may warn you with it, and whomever it may reach. Do you indeed testify that there are other gods with God?" Say, "I myself do not testify." Say, "He is but One God, and I am innocent of your idolatry."
They deny the Hour. For those who deny that Hour, We have prepared a blazing fire.
by the Garden of [Eternal] Repose,
Lodge them in your home according to your means. Do not harass them so as to (make life) difficult for them. If they are with child, spend upon them until they deliver their burden; and if they suckle give them their wage and consult together honorably. But if you both make difficulties, let another woman suckle for him.
If only the unbelievers knew of the Hour when they shall not be able to keep off the Fire from their faces, nor from their backs; nor shall they be helped.
God said, "You have been granted your request, Moses."
One day will Allah raise them all up (for Judgment): then will they swear to Him as they swear to you: And they think that they have something (to stand upon). No, indeed! they are but liars!
"And ask your Lord for forgiveness, and repent to Him. My Lord is Merciful and Loving."
They replied: 'Its recompense in whosoever's saddle bag it is found, he shall be its recompense. As such we punish the harmdoers'
Let them bring a discourse like it, if they are truthful.
And there are those of them who made a covenant with Allah: If He give us out of His grace, we will certainly give alms and we will certainly be of the good.
God will save the pious ones because of their virtuous deeds. No hardship will touch them nor will they be grieved.
And comes your Lord, and angels row on row,
And Allah has created you and what you make.
And Hell is the meeting-place for them all.
Those who fulfil their vows and fear the Day whose evil shall be diffused far and wide,
(Others) before them rejected (prophets): the people of Nuh and the dwellers of Ar-Rass and Samood,
We have sent a Book, (the Quran), which is an honor for you. Will you then not understand?
Allah has not taken any son, nor has there ever been with Him any deity. [If there had been], then each deity would have taken what it created, and some of them would have sought to overcome others. Exalted is Allah above what they describe [concerning Him].
O you who have faith! Should any of you desert his religion, Allah will soon bring a people whom He loves and who love Him, [who will be] humble towards the faithful, stern towards the faithless, waging jihad in the way of Allah, not fearing the blame of any blamer. That is Allah's grace, which He grants to whomever He wishes, and Allah is all-bounteous, all-knowing.
The Fire of God kindled
Say: He will give life to them Who brought them into existence at first, and He is cognizant of all creation
And had they believed in Allah and the prophet and that which is sent down unto him, they would not have taken them for friends, but many of them are transgressors.
Those who believe (in the Qur'an), and those who follow the Jewish (scriptures), and the Christians and the Sabians,- any who believe in Allah and the Last Day, and work righteousness, shall have their reward with their Lord; on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
God will increase the guidance and piety of those who seek guidance.
And abide in your houses and do not display yourselves as [was] the display of the former times of ignorance. And establish prayer and give zakah and obey Allah and His Messenger. Allah intends only to remove from you the impurity [of sin], O people of the [Prophet's] household, and to purify you with [extensive] purification.
Then magnify the Name of thy Lord, the All-mighty.
God does not forgive the sin of considering others equal to Him, but He may choose to forgive other sins. Whoever believes in other gods besides Him has indulged in a great sin.
Nay! They say: "We found our fathers following a certain way and religion, and we guide ourselves by their footsteps."
They will wish to get out of the Fire, but they shall not, theirs shall be a lasting punishment.
But on the contrary, he rejected Truth and turned away!
made sleep for you to rest,
When the earth will be shaken with a mighty shaking,
Untouched by any man or jinn, before them.
Let those who sell the life of this world for the Hereafter fight in the cause of God. Whoever fights in the cause of God, and then is killed, or achieves victory, We will grant him a great compensation.
Among the people of Moses is a nation who guide [the people] by the truth and do justice thereby.
And the people of Moses took to them, after him, of their ornaments a Calf -- a mere body that lowed. Did they not see it spoke not to them, neither guided them upon any way? Yet they took it to them, and were evildoers.
When the wrongdoers face their punishment, it shall not be lightened for them, nor shall they be granted any reprieve.
AlifLaamRa. Those are the verses of the Clear Book.
See you not that We have sent the Shayatin (devils) against the disbelievers to push them to do evil.
And there has already come to them of information that in which there is deterrence -
He specially chooses for His mercy whom He pleases; and Allah is the Lord of mighty grace.
in the shadow of a smoking blaze,
Do you not realize that to God prostrates everyone in the heavens and everyone on earth, and the sun, and the moon, and the stars, and the mountains, and the trees, and the animals, and many of the people? But many are justly deserving of punishment. Whomever God shames, there is none to honor him. God does whatever He wills.
[We said], "And take in your hand a bunch [of grass] and strike with it and do not break your oath." Indeed, We found him patient, an excellent servant. Indeed, he was one repeatedly turning back [to Allah].
To God prostrates everyone in the heavens and the earth, willingly or unwillingly, as do their shadows, in the morning and in the evening.
And recall that We delivered you from the people of Pharaoh. They inflicted on you terrible persecution, killing your sons and sparing your women. Therein was a tremendous trial from your Lord.
Your Lord knows best those who have gone astray from His path and those who are rightly guided.
is it you that sow it, or are We the Sower?
Say (O Muhammad SAW): "Come, I will recite what your Lord has prohibited you from: Join not anything in worship with Him; be good and dutiful to your parents; kill not your children because of poverty - We provide sustenance for you and for them; come not near to Al-Fawahish (shameful sins, illegal sexual intercourse, etc.) whether committed openly or secretly, and kill not anyone whom Allah has forbidden, except for a just cause (according to Islamic law). This He has commanded you that you may understand.
Known are the months of pilgrimage. If one resolves to perform the pilgrimage in these months, let him not indulge in concupiscence, sin or quarrel. And the good you do shall be known to God. Provide for the journey, and the best of provisions is piety. O men of understanding, obey Me.
And the roof exalted,
with goblets, and ewers, and a cup from a spring
And when the camels big with young are abandoned,
Say, "I am commanded to serve the Lord of this town, which He has made inviolable and to whom everything belongs; I am commanded to be one of those devoted to Him;
What is the matter with you that you do not speak?"
It will be said: "Enter the gates of Hell. Herein shall you abide." How evil is the abode of the vainglorious!
And He answers those who believe and do good deeds, and gives them more out of His grace; and (as for) the unbelievers, they shall have a severe punishment.
Allah is the All-embracing.
Allah said: then get thee forth therefrom; verily thou art one damned.
But as for the compromisers - they will be firewood for Hell.'"
Had Allah wished they would not have ascribed partners [to Him]. We have not made you a caretaker for them, nor is it your duty to watch over them.
And if thou wert to ask them: Who causeth water to come down from the sky, and therewith reviveth the earth after its death? they verily would say: Allah. Say: Praise be to Allah! But most of them have no sense.
I bring to you the messages of my Lord. I am your sincere friend.
He said, "What do I know about what they do?
Lo! those who merit paradise this day are happily employed,
shall have their abode in the Fire in requital for their deeds.
All that is evil in the sight of your Lord, and is detestable.